The Project Gutenberg eBook of The shadow on the spark
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The shadow on the spark

Author: Edward S. Sears

Release date: January 6, 2025 [eBook #75049]

Language: English

Original publication: New York: Experimenter Publishing Company, Inc, 1927

Credits: Roger Frank and Sue Clark


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SHADOW ON THE SPARK ***


[Illustration: ... As the doctor, seeing the blood on Inspector
Craven’s coat, began to examine him to learn the extent of his
injury, the hunchback, with a quick movement, grasped a bundle
of papers spiked on a file and threw them into the stove.]


                        THE SHADOW ON THE SPARK

                           By Edward S. Sears


    Here is a murder detective story of a different type, which
    we warmly recommend to you. It again shows that circumstantial
    evidence may not always be 100 per cent right, and that one
    should not always jump to conclusions. The science part of
    this story is extremely ingenious and can be duplicated at
    any time for use in similar cases.


When Dr. Milton Jarvis descended the plank of the liner Homeric, on his
return from the International Medical Congress at Vienna, in the year
1926, he expected to find his most intimate friend, Jim Craighead, at
the pier to meet him. He looked about him, somewhat disappointed, then
disconsolately walked over to Broadway, where he stopped to buy a paper
before hailing a taxi.

For more than two weeks he had not seen a paper. He was busy with the
notes he had made at the Congress, which he was pledged to read shortly
after his return, to the American Medical Association. Hence, it was
with more than ordinary interest that he looked at the glaring headlines
of the New York journals, so much more blatant than those employed by
the European press.

One glance at the first page of the newspaper informed him why Jim
Craighead had not met him. He shut his eyes for a moment to assure
himself that he was not dreaming--that he really was home and not with
the medical celebrities who had gathered at Vienna. Dismay, horror and
unbelief strove alternately for mastery. It was impossible--Heaven would
not permit such a crime. “Craighead inquest perfunctory” read the
streamer. “Well-known banker dies of shock following operation.”
Craighead, it appeared, had slipped while dashing for a train. The
platform was wet--the train was already in motion--he missed his
footing, one leg going under the wheels. Amputation became necessary,
fatal blood poisoning having set in.

The inquest had begun that very day. Very little testimony had been
taken when the edition Dr. Jarvis was reading went to press. It was
after two o’clock in the afternoon when he got into the taxi, and the
doctor immediately resolved to hear what he might of the remainder of
the testimony.

Leaning out the window of the taxi, he called: “Drive me to the
Coroner’s Court, please.”

In a few minutes he stood in the court room just before the Coroner
adjourned the Court for the day. The attending physician was on the
witness stand completing his recital of the patient’s treatment.

“Now, Dr. Lawson,” asked Mr. Bailey, a lawyer representing an insurance
company in which Craighead held a large policy, “how did you treat your
patient? I understand that amputation was necessary as soon as
Mr. Craighead reached the hospital.”

“That is correct,” replied the doctor.

“Were all the usual precautions taken?”

“Oh, yes,” said Doctor Lawson, “I attended to that myself. The wound was
perfectly sterilized. Then I attached the haemostats.”

“What do you mean by that?” asked Mr. Bailey.

“Little clips are used to fasten the ends of the severed blood vessels.
Afterward, they are replaced by gut which is tied around the blood
vessel, gradually being absorbed as healing progresses,” replied the
doctor.

“And with all these precautions, the shock of the operation killed
Mr. Craighead?”

“That is true,” assented Dr. Lawson.

“That will be all for today,” said Mr. Bailey. “Tomorrow, I will want to
ask you a few questions.”

The lawyers folded up their papers preparatory to leaving the court
room, while the large crowd which had gathered out of curiosity to hear
how one of the wealthiest bankers of the city had met his destiny,
slowly filed out. Dr. Jarvis, seeing the physician of the insurance
company, whom he knew well, at the table, joined him as he packed a
sheaf of papers into a wallet.

“What do you make of it, Fulton?” he questioned the doctor.

“So far, we have learned nothing, Jarvis,” said Dr. Fulton, slowly. “I
know how close you and Craighead were. You must feel terribly shocked.
It seems clear that the operation killed him. There is no ground for
suspicion, but we must make some kind of fight, before we pay a $300,000
policy which has been in force only six months. He left a large estate
too, as you probably know.”

Dr. Jarvis went home in a deep, brown study. He was shocked and
horrified by the loss of his dearest friend. He could not reconcile the
thought that this big, hearty person was the victim of blood poison or
shock. Why, the man had always been immune. He had been proverbially
tough, bubbling over with vitality. “How had he lost that immunity?” he
asked himself. He recalled their last day together--the day before he
had sailed for Europe. They were playing tennis at the country club.

Dr. Jarvis, trying desperately to prevent his rival from scoring the
last point in a hard-fought game, swung down viciously on a high
bounding ball, sending it back low over the net in what looked like a
volley, impossible to handle. But Jim Craighead whipped his racquet up
in a swift lawford and the ball, like a shot from a gun, sped down the
side line far from the doctor’s reach.

“Damn,” he cried, “trimmed 8 to 6 by a man of fifty and I’m your junior
by ten years. But you sure do keep in condition.”

“Doc,” answered Craighead, “just three months ago, when I took out life
insurance policies for $300,000, the examiner said he would like to have
a dozen risks in my condition. I can run a mile at a good pace and do
any stunts in the gym that a kid can do.”

“That’s right, Doctor Jarvis,” chimed in a young man of twenty-two, who,
with a beautiful girl about the same age, had just run up to the
clubhouse in Craighead’s sedan, “he made me go some to keep ahead of him
in a long swim, though he didn’t even know the crawl.”

                *       *       *       *       *

Doctor Jarvis recalled that picture now--the great, tawny-haired
Craighead towering above his adopted son’s head, his arm fondly on his
shoulder and the youth’s arm about the girl’s waist. The girl, the jewel
in the setting, had light hair, neither golden nor yellow, although with
a touch of autumn wheat; she was delicately featured, with an expressive
mouth, inclined to be serious. Now, with these two men, apparently happy
and smiling, she revealed very regular, white teeth. Ross Craighead was
almost as tall as his adopted father but slender; Jim was wide
shouldered and robust. The girl, although tall, seemed diminutive beside
these two.

If the beautiful girl and the handsome youth seemed well and full of
vitality, Jim Craighead was almost insolent in his defiant heartiness.
Ross was the orphaned son of Craighead’s sister who had died when he was
a few years old. The bond between these two was very strong--Ross was a
sensitive soul, of the artistic type, against which characteristic the
buoyant Craighead had waged a losing fight. The boy could not be
hardened.

At college he was all for humanities, classics, science, logic, but
close calculation in business seemed to have been left out of his
nature. Sports had attracted him--he was good material for the teams,
especially in baseball and swimming. Just as Craighead had determined
that he would be hopeless in the banking and brokerage operations which
he controlled, Ross had met Tessie Prettyman, who was secretary to
Craighead’s manager. Her efficiency was due to the fact that she took
every instruction seriously and obeyed implicitly. She believed anything
she was told, which was inconvenient when she was listening to a rival
of the firm.

Craighead was inclined to discourage the intimacy he saw growing between
the pair but when Ross began to grind earnestly at tasks Jim knew the
boy loathed, he began to consider the girl less a liability than an
asset. She was an orphan, that was all they knew of her history. But she
was well educated, a lady in all her actions, so that Jim soon grew as
fond of her as Ross. This, then, was the circle which had been broken up
by a tragedy so unnecessary in Dr. Jarvis’s mind as to be heartbreaking.

Like all healthy men--men who have never felt an ache or a pain, Jim was
virtually a baby when some slight cut or other wound came in a tennis or
other game. Once Doctor Jarvis had found him taking morphine. Jim had
said, rather shamefacedly:

“It’s not a habit, Milt, but I just can’t stand pain. I’ve never had
much, I guess that’s the reason.”

This last day he had seen Craighead, the recollection of which came to
the doctor’s mind over and over again, the young man had taken the front
seat with Tessie, while Jim and Doctor Jarvis sat in the rear.

“Jim, old man, I’ll be missing you,” said the doctor, as they left him
at his apartment.

“We’ll be waiting at the pier when you come back, Milt, twice as famous
as you are now,” was Jim’s reply.

That was like him. He had helped Doctor Jarvis through his early
difficulties and setbacks, encouraging him and rejoicing in his
successes. He was foster father and pal in one. So Doctor Jarvis was
very impatient as his brain refused to accept the fact that Jim
Craighead was dead.

In no way could he reconcile his sturdy friend’s death with a theory
that the shock of an operation would kill him. His analysis was
searching. Nothing in his experience was overlooked. He was skilled in
X-ray therapy as well as X-ray photography. His science was modern--the
latest researches were commonplaces to him. But facts were what he
needed, after all. No conclusions could be drawn from surmises. This
thought drove him to the room of Inspector Craven at headquarters. They
were good friends, for the doctor had often given expert testimony in
trials in which the inspector was interested.

“Inspector,” began Dr. Jarvis, “what do you know of this Craighead
inquest?”

“Well, Doc,” replied the inspector, settling his huge frame back in a
capacious chair, as he wrinkled his thick brows and blew the smoke from
a vile smelling pipe through his walrus moustache, “inquests are not
much in our line unless there is some crime involved. This is such a
clear case of a man dying from the shock of an operation that the police
have no more interest in it than the public. Of course Craighead was a
big man. I knew him well myself. He used to stop here to pick me up
sometimes, so I got to know what an impatient chap he was. He told me
that he’d sprint for a car, whenever he had to ride on a street car,
like any kid of seventeen. The insurance company would grab at anything
suspicious but nothing has come up. We all know the story. Craighead got
too cocky in his sprinting ability, and was run over. It was mucky and
rainy, so what followed was almost inevitable. Tough on the insurance
companies, though. Doc Lawson seems positive that it was the shock of
the operation.”

“That is just why I don’t feel satisfied,” said Dr. Jarvis. “Lawson is
an old practitioner, a good surgeon, but very apt to make up his mind
what killed his patient. The more you might show him the probability of
some other cause, the more stubbornly he would believe in his own
theory.”

“There are quite a few of us like that, Doc,” smiled the inspector.
“But, you knew the whole family. Is there anyone who could profit by
Craighead’s death?”

“Well, there is Ross, Jim’s adopted son and his nephew. But he had all
the money he needed--he was in the business with Jim. Then, too, Jim
made no secret of the fact that his fortune was to go to Ross. So I
think that Ross is out of the question, for they were devoted to each
other. Ross is the idealistic type--he would be more apt to give money
away than try to get it by murder.”

“Who else is there?” queried the inspector, indifferently, for he could
see no mystery in Craighead’s death.

“Then,” continued the doctor, “there is the girl to whom Ross is
engaged, a perfectly innocent creature who simply adored Jim--he treated
her as if she were already his daughter-in-law. She is an orphan, Tessie
Prettyman.”

“Tessie Prettyman!” exploded Inspector Craven, “Good Lord, Doctor
Jarvis, do you know who Tessie Prettyman is?”

“No, she has no family that we know of, but she seems to be a very
refined and charming little lady.”

                *       *       *       *       *

“Well,” said the inspector, bouncing from his chair, “Tessie Prettyman
is a girl who has been visiting Piggy Bill Hovey down in the Tombs.
Piggy Bill is held on a narcotic charge, without bail, because he was
caught with a large supply of morphine, opium and heroin; the Federal
boys want to find out where he gets that stuff because he can’t be
connected with any smuggling operations. Our men have watched the girl
and she seems to know Piggy Bill very well. Some of them think she is
his sweetie. But if Piggy Bill is anywhere on the horizon, I am willing
to be suspicious about Craighead’s death.”

This revelation grated on Dr. Jarvis. He did not believe for a moment
that this sweet-looking girl had any criminal tendencies or was capable
of playing such a dual rôle as the affianced of Ross Craighead and the
“sweetie” of a notorious criminal.

“Inspector,” he said finally, “have you time to go up to the hospital
with me? The records or the head nurse might tell us something.”

“Time, time,” roared Craven, “this is official business now. What we
have to learn is how Piggy Bill’s sweetie happens to be engaged to marry
Jim Craighead’s son. First thing, we’ll go to the hospital, then we’ll
talk with this young man who seems to be infatuated with Tessie.”

In the inspector’s big car it was a short trip to the hospital. The
records told them nothing new. It was Dr. Lawson’s case, so that
whatever he might have to say would be developed at the inquest. But for
the fact, suddenly unveiled, that Piggy Bill was somewhere in this
series of events, the inspector would have remained seated in his big
chair, serenely puffing on his pipe.

“Doc,” said the inspector, suddenly, “let’s talk to the head nurse
first, then we can look up the young man and Tessie.”

“Miss Cornhill,” asked the Doctor, when the head nurse appeared, “did
you see Mr. Craighead when he was brought into the hospital a few days
ago?”

“Of course,” replied the nurse.

“How did Mr. Craighead seem to you?” he queried further.

“Doctor Jarvis,” the nurse said, “Mr. Craighead was very badly hurt. He
was not a patient sufferer--he stood the pain irritably and was relieved
when it became necessary to etherize him. He asked the doctor to give
him a hypodermic a couple of times, but the doctor refused.”

“That was like Jim,” murmured Doctor Jarvis.

“But,” continued the nurse, “he should not have died from the operation
under normal conditions. Of course his mental condition was very bad. He
was a very handsome man, in fine physical condition and he moaned, time
after time, “I had as lief been killed as lose my foot.”

“When Mr. Craighead was taken home, Miss Cornhill,” asked the doctor,
“did one of your nurses accompany him?”

“No, sir,” was the reply, “Mr. Craighead insisted that his son and the
young man’s lady friend be with him--anyone else, he was sure, would
irritate him more than help.”

“Thank you, very kindly, Miss Cornhill,” said the Doctor, and they left
the hospital.

“Well, inspector,” began Doctor Jarvis, when they were seated in the
car, “we didn’t get very far at the hospital. If it lies between Ross
and Tessie, I guess it may as well end where it is.”

“See here, Doc,” said the inspector, gripping Doctor Jarvis by the arm,
“you’ve started me looking for a murder or some crime and by the
eternal, you are not going to let any sentimentality about a pretty girl
check our investigation until we know that there is or is not a crime.”

“Inspector,” replied the Doctor, with a hard glint in his eye, “as long
as there is any doubt as to how Jim died, I am with you to the end. I
simply meant to express my opinion that neither of those two could be
involved. Let us look the situation in the face. Dr. Lawson has
certified that Jim Craighead died of natural causes. That prevents any
kind of action until the inquest reveals something of a suspicious
nature. In fact, there would have been no inquest but for the insistence
of the insurance company. Now, we must develop something that points to
some unnatural factor in Jim’s death before the inquest is over.”

“That’s true enough,” replied Craven, “and we don’t want to alarm anyone
until we have the goods on him. You be at the inquest bright and early
and keep your eyes and ears wide open. I will find out when Tessie went
to see Piggy Bill last and join you later.”

The inspector left Doctor Jarvis at his door, a prey to many conflicting
emotions. He had started machinery going which he knew could no longer
be stopped. But he did not want to leave Ross open to an insidious
attack. His efforts to communicate with him, however, were unavailing.
After a sleepless night the doctor refreshed himself with a plunge, a
shave, and then having dressed himself in a sombre garb which fitted
well with his present emotions, went to the Coroner’s court. It had just
opened with Dr. Lawson on the stand.

“Now Doctor,” began Mr. Bailey, representing the insurance company, “you
were describing, yesterday, the nature of Mr. Craighead’s injuries. You
mentioned fastening the haemostats yourself. Will you tell the coroner
and the jury what you mean by that?”

“Why, yes,” answered Dr. Lawson, “to use layman language, haemostats are
little clips which are applied to the ends of all the severed blood
vessels when we amputate, thus closing them so tightly that no foreign
or toxic substances can find their way in.”

Dr. Jarvis leaned over to the physician of the insurance company
whispering, “Fulton, why doesn’t your lawyer ask him how the shock of
the operation or blood poison could kill him, if the haemostats were
properly applied?”

Dr. Fulton communicated this message to the lawyer who immediately shot
this question at Dr. Lawson.

“Dr. Lawson, if the haemostats were properly applied, how do you suppose
the poisonous substances got into the wound, if the wound was sterile,
as we must assume it to have been after the operation at the hospital?”

“Well, one way, which I assume to have been the true way, is that the
poisons made their way through the wall cells of the blood vessels--the
arteries, veins and capillaries,” replied Dr. Lawson.

At this reply, Dr. Jarvis shut his lips very grimly. He was making
progress at last. Very opportunely, at this moment, Inspector Craven
slipped into the chair next to him.

“Doc,” he murmured, in a low tone, “we are on the track of
something--Tessie visited Piggy Bill twice, the day before Craighead
died. He’s a bad egg, but we never have caught him in anything red
handed except this narcotic deal. He’s bad, though, bad enough for
anything. Now, here’s another funny thing about Piggy. He’s an educated
rogue, talks French and is a great student of toxicology. How does that
fit in with your story now?”

“Inspector,” said the doctor, “I don’t know yet where we are heading,
but that last remark of Doctor Lawson’s shows me that Jim did not die of
the causes ascribed. Now we must find out what did cause his death. With
a few more facts, I think I can clear this mystery. I’m half tempted to
take a hand right now.”

“Wait until you have the whole story,” advised the inspector. “If we
have to make any arrests, we don’t want to warn them in advance.”

“Doctor Lawson has just made a bad break,” said Dr. Jarvis, “which makes
it easy to show him up, although I hate to discredit him. He really is a
good surgeon, but he’s not modern enough. We must get all the
information we can from him before he suspects we are after anything.”

He then scribbled on a piece of paper, “Ask who nursed Craighead.”

In a few seconds the lawyer asked:

“Dr. Lawson, Mr. Craighead was in charge of a nurse, of course?”

“He was in good hands, Mr. Bailey,” said Dr. Lawson; “it was his own
wish that his son Ross and Miss Tessie Prettyman, of whom he seemed to
be very fond, should be with him and administer his medicine.”

“Is Miss Prettyman here?” queried the lawyer.

“She is sitting just back of you.”

“That will be all for the present, thank you, doctor,” concluded
Mr. Bailey.

                *       *       *       *       *

“Miss Prettyman, will you take the stand?” asked the coroner.

Both Dr. Jarvis and the inspector looked keenly at the girlish figure
which mounted to the witness box. She was tall, well formed, with a
wealth of blond hair which surrounded a very beautiful, expressive face,
now drawn with worry and late vigils.

“You nursed Mr. Craighead during his last illness, did you not, Miss
Prettyman?” asked the lawyer, after the usual preliminaries were over.

“Ross and I took turns, and sometimes both of us sat with him together,”
said the girl. “He grew fretful when one or the other of us was away for
even a minute.”

“Did you give him his medicines?” continued the lawyer.

“Sometimes I did and sometimes it was Ross,” said the girl in a low
voice, in which a slight catch of emotion was discernible.

“Gad, Doc,” snapped the inspector, “where is this young chap? If he
knows anything we can sweat both him and Tessie.”

“There he is, three seats over,” replied Dr. Jarvis. “One look at him
ought to satisfy you.”

They looked at the tall, well dressed youth--about twenty-two he was--a
sincere, dreamy looking chap, yet now with his lips tightly compressed,
evidently resentful of the way the girl he loved was being prodded.

“Miss Prettyman,” queried the lawyer, who as yet had not caught the
drift of Dr. Jarvis’s prompting, “how did Mr. Craighead die? Describe
his symptoms.”

“I can hardly tell you that,” answered the girl without hesitation.
“Ross would lie down for awhile in the adjoining room, with the door
open, whenever Mr. Craighead dozed off late at night. Mr. Craighead died
very suddenly, for I ran in a very few seconds after Ross had cried that
he was in danger. Ross, of course, saw him die but would tell me nothing
about it. He said it was too awful.”

“Now is the time, Doc,” said the inspector, all his detective instincts
aroused. “We’ll see what the boy says and then, if it throws suspicion
on him, we can see how deep is the affection of Piggy Bill’s sweetie.”

In the girl, the inspector, looking for important revelations, saw now,
not a pretty girl, but the possible accomplice of Piggy Bill Hovey in
some foul deed.

“Swear Ross Craighead,” said the coroner, who did not know whether he
was to be bored with a lot of insurance statistics or was to face a
drama not yet unfolded.

The buzz of conversation in the courtroom ceased as Ross took the stand.
No one knew in what direction the inquest was tending. Even to the
coroner this long rehearsal of symptoms without any avowed purpose
seemed unnecessarily delayed. Inspector Craven’s presence puzzled him.
He did not especially relish having the police oversee his conduct of an
inquest. He asked rather curtly that the proceedings be hastened.

“Mr. Craighead,” began the lawyer, “were you with your father in his
last hours?”

“I was,” answered Ross, sadly.

“Did you purchase the medicines administered to him?”

“No, sir,” was the reply. “He was very querulous if I left his side.
When I dozed off, he often called me just to talk. He felt the loss of
his activity so much it was pitiful. Miss Prettyman, who loved him
almost as much as I did, for we were always together, never minded going
out for whatever he wanted, day or night.”

“I should say not,” muttered the inspector grimly to Doctor Jarvis.

“Now,” pursued the lawyer, obedient to the doctor’s prompting, “how did
your father die? I do not want to deepen your pain, but we must get at
some understanding of the exact cause of your father’s death.”

“Well,” answered Ross, wearily, “he insisted on taking opiates; he knew
how to take a hypodermic himself, but he took some other drug, heroin,
perhaps. He was not a drug addict, but he often said that he would take
anything to drown pain. It happened like a flash. I did not know that
blood poison could travel so fast. The night he died he took an opiate
and seemed drowsy, so that I said I would lie down for a moment or two.
He took a bottle in which was a colorless liquid and poured some of it
into a glass of milk. He was half asleep then, so I went to my room
while he was drinking it, for he often took a glass of milk in that
fashion. I had had very little sleep for two or three days and dozed off
at once with all my clothing on. I could not have slept more than a
quarter of an hour when I was awakened by a crash. It was the crash of
breaking glass, as I learned an instant later. I rushed into his room to
see him breathing his last. He had overturned the table on which were
the bottles of medicine. But what a terrible sight greeted my eyes! His
hands, arms, legs twitched and shot out from second to second, then
before I could even call for help he had a convulsion and died. I called
Dr. Lawson. It seemed an eternity before he answered. Miss Prettyman had
heard my cries and she was with me. Dr. Lawson asked if he had taken
anything besides the medicine he had prescribed. I said yes, he had
taken a hypodermic and some other opiate.

“The hopeless fool,” he cried. “I warned him against that very thing. He
practically killed himself. The shock of the operation was enough at one
time.”

When he reached the house, he said it was too late to do anything.

“Did you look at the bottles on the floor?” asked the lawyer.

“Yes, sir,” replied Ross. “They were all thrown together in a broken
heap--they had been on a small table at his bedside. In his struggles,
he must have overturned them. Oh, it was terrible, terrible.” Here, the
young man buried his head in his arms, shaking with the power of his
emotions.

“Inspector,” said Dr. Jarvis, “that young man was describing a death
from strychnine poisoning. We must find out where that strychnine came
from. Look at that girl now!”

The inspector followed his gaze to where Tessie sat. She was obviously
horror stricken. A look of despair crept into her face as she followed
Ross’s descent from the stand. Ross was about to go to her side but at a
sign from the inspector an officer took him by the arm, leading him to a
chair near the inspector. His heart sank as he caught that look of
despair on the girl’s face.

                *       *       *       *       *

Every actor in the drama was apparently in court. Dr. Jarvis had caught
the inspector’s fever for a man hunt. It was now a cold problem of
science. He was not a judge, merely an instrument of justice. No longer
was there a thought in his mind, any more than in that of the inspector,
that any person should be shielded. He was going, from now on, to let
the chips fall where they would.

“Inspector,” he said, “the whole situation now depends on how much that
girl knows. I am going to ask Mr. Bailey to put me on the stand. I see
exactly how the affair was managed, but I haven’t the slightest idea of
who planned or executed it. Anyway, when I get through, if Ross or
Tessie had any hand in it, they will talk better than if they were
subjected to the third degree. I am talking of murder now; when I am
through, it will be your affair to bring the guilty person to justice.”

“H’m,” mused the inspector a second, as if in doubt, then posted his men
with orders to let no one leave the court room until he gave the signal.
“There might be others,” he reflected, “so why not bag them all?”

Dr. Jarvis now stepped to the table where counsel and doctors sat. After
a few whispered words, Mr. Bailey rose to his feet.

“Mr. Coroner,” he said, “one of our most prominent physicians, an
acknowledged authority and the closest friend of the deceased, is our
next witness. His testimony may clear up some of our difficulties.”

The pursued rarely are ignorant that they are pursued. As the lawyer
concluded his announcement, Tessie half rose to her feet, but an officer
forced her back into her chair. She realized then, that she was in
custody. She had indeed, divined before that the inquest had taken a
threatening turn. Ross dully watched the progress of events thinking how
he might shield her from persecution. Lovers are impersonal. The world
is outside. To him, Jim Craighead was still alive. Suspicion did not
enter his mind. It did not occur to him that he might be suspected of
murder. Still less did he conceive that anyone would accuse of
complicity in a murder, the girl, who to him, was the impersonation of
innocence. That a net of some evil omen was weaving about them was too
evident to be ignored. Its nature, however, was a mystery to him. Yet
when the doctor, a man whom he knew for the devoted friend of his foster
father and, as he thought, also of himself, got on the stand and began
to speak in that sure, even voice, which seemed to brook no
contradiction, he looked somewhat hopefully at that dynamic figure. The
doctor was a tall, slender man, athletic and erect in appearance, with a
firm, intellectual face.

Dr. Jarvis was sworn. He was then examined on his various degrees, his
experience, his scientific and other studies. Mr. Bailey, instead of
asking a series of questions, requested him to give any testimony that
might throw light on the death of Jim Craighead.

“I would like you to bear patiently with what I have to say,” began
Dr. Jarvis, “interrupting, if you like, when I have not been
sufficiently clear, for whatever questions you may care to put.

“Singularly enough, the mysterious death of the best friend I have ever
known ceases to be a mystery through a remarkable scientific discovery
which I must rehearse briefly. It is the relative size of the smallest
bodies known to science. The structure of the atom has been analyzed.
The atom is the smallest particle of matter which can exist
independently. The elements which enter into the atom have no existence
apart from the atom. The atom is the smallest particle of matter which
can enter into the structure of the molecule. But it is not
indestructible. It has been broken up into its elements. These consist
of outer circulatory electrons which are negative charges of electricity
and a core or nucleus composed of positively charged protons and some
electrons, all in balance. These electrons are in constant motion within
the atom, revolving about the nucleus much as the planets revolve about
the sun.

“Now, this discovery led to the measurements of these tiny particles.
Science wanted to learn more about the relative masses of atoms and
molecules. The electron is about one thousandth the volume of the
hydrogen atom. Do not think this is all a pedantic discussion. You will
see in a very few moments how very practical it all is.

“The atom,” continued Dr. Jarvis, “is invisible under the most powerful
microscope. The molecule is larger, but defies the microscope. But,
having gone thus far, science had to go further. The next larger mass
after the molecule, is the colloid. A colloid is a formless substance
classified as a slime. It never takes a definite form like the
crystalline substances. Solutions of gold can be made in the two
forms--there is a colloidal gold and a crystalline gold.”

A look of stupefaction was on the faces of the inspector, the coroner
and all that vast throng in the courtroom. Yet a pin could have been
heard, had it dropped during that tense silence. Back of these mystic
words an enigma lay. That the doctor would clear it up, his easy self
assurance seemed to guarantee.

“Even the colloid practically battles the microscope. In the ordinary
atmosphere, merely cloudy impressions can be obtained. How then is the
presence of any of these tiny particles discovered? It is very simple,
when the method is disclosed. The colloid cannot be seen, but it makes a
shadow on an electric spark as it passes by. So when the presence of a
colloid is suspected, its shadow on an electric spark betrays it.”

“Pardon me, Doctor, for interrupting you,” broke in the bewildered
Mr. Bailey, “but if this discussion has any bearing on the death of Jim
Craighead, I would like to know, if these particles you are talking
about, are so small that they cannot be seen with the strongest
microscope, how it helps you any to know they make a shadow on an
electric spark. In fact, how do you know they make a shadow on an
electric spark?”

                *       *       *       *       *

“You may have read at times, Mr. Bailey,” replied the doctor,
“announcements that astronomers had located a star known through
mathematical calculations to be at some point in the heavens, which the
telescope has been unable to penetrate. Well, the speed of light, which
is 186,000 miles a second, helps us. A photograph of the heavens will
sometimes reveal something which the eye could not see. So, a
photographic plate will sometimes catch the smaller particles as well as
the largest stars, too far away to be seen.

“If you consider the light as moving in waves it is easier to understand
what effect light waves have on these discoveries. Artificial light
travels in waves farther apart than in the case of natural light. The
waves of this kind of light are so far apart that the colloid or small
microbe can lie between the waves and make no impression on the eye or
on the photographic plate.” The doctor here took a sheet of paper and
hastily made a sketch which he showed to the jurors and the coroner.

Artificial light waves:

[Illustration: Sine Wave 1]

“The waves of natural light are closer together, but still too far apart
to catch much of the smallest germs, like that of cancer, or the
colloid, to advantage.” The doctor made another sketch.

Natural light waves:

[Illustration: Sine Wave 2]

“In natural light, under the microscope, it is at times possible to get
a hazy impression which conveys little information. But it has been
found possible to use the ultra-violet waves which are shorter than
natural light waves in a vacuum and thus to get a photograph of
particles too short to be caught in ordinary light.” Here the doctor
made his final drawing.

Ultra-violet waves:

[Illustration: Sine Wave 3]

“Thus a shadow thrown on a spark of an ultra-violet ray in a vacuum will
be recorded on a photograph of the phenomenon. The discovery of the
Becquerel Rays, the X-rays and the various rays known as “gamma,” etc.,
were all stepping stones to our knowledge of the tiniest particles.
Compared with electrons, atoms and molecules, the colloid is relatively
large.

“A photograph would show the presence of a colloid without great
difficulty. Now, what is the relation of the colloid to the problem we
are trying to solve? During the world war, things were learned which
were mothered by necessity. Surgery had to be not only quick but
effective. While what is known as the shock of an operation is due to a
toxic condition, it is not what is technically known as blood poison. It
is definitely the shock of the operation. In the world war it was
learned that the shock of the operation was due to the absorption or
infiltration of certain toxic or poisonous substances which belong to
the colloid family.

“It was observed that if the haemostats were removed from a wounded
member, which had been amputated, the condition of shock immediately was
noticeable. This led to the conclusion that the haemostats kept out
something which could enter when they were removed. The inevitable
conclusion which followed was that the cause of shock was something
which could not pass through an animal membrane or tissue, such as the
walls of the blood vessels. Experiments have shown that while
crystalline molecules would pass readily enough through a parchment
filter the colloids remained behind.

“So, if a wound is made perfectly sterile and haemostats are used to
seal the wound hermetically, the colloid poisons are excluded and, as
they could not penetrate an animal membrane, the sealing of the wound
effectually prevents the condition known as shock which so often is the
fatal result of an operation. The tiny colloid, first known by its
shadow on a spark, cannot enter the blood stream if the wound of
amputation is sealed.

“The lessons of the world war showed that the wall cells of the blood
vessels, the arteries, veins and capillaries present a compact and
effective barrier to the passage of the colloidal poisons which cause
death. Can you see now where we have arrived? Dr. Lawson has said that
Mr. Craighead’s death was due to poisons which seeped in through the
wall cells of the blood vessels. But in this long and perhaps tiresome
explanation I have shown this to be impossible. Jim Craighead did not
die of the shock of the operation. Dr. Lawson is positive that the wound
was perfectly clean, that it was impossible for infection to have
entered at the point of amputation.

“If it was impossible there, it was impossible elsewhere. So, if Jim
Craighead did not die of the shock, he died of something else. It was
not blood poison, for it would not have acted on a man of Craighead’s
strength and perfect health, in so short a time. His death was due
neither to blood poison nor to shock. Of what, then, did he die?
Symptoms tell us clearly enough. Craighead’s son describes in
untechnical language, symptoms which point almost unerringly to the fact
that Craighead died of poison, administered to him. That poison, I
assert was strychnine.”

Had a thunderbolt destroyed the cupola on a nearby building and caused
it to crash in on them, or had a boy rushed in crying that a tidal wave
was rushing up Broadway, the excitement could not have been greater. The
girl was crushed. Was it guilt that could be read in her terrified
features? The coroner’s jury, which a few minutes earlier was ready to
render a verdict of death due to an operation, was now anxious to
recommend the arrest of a murderer.

                *       *       *       *       *

For a few seconds the atmosphere of the court room was tense--no
whispers broke the silence, but eyes moved restlessly to the actors in
the drama. The girl under guard, almost terror stricken, looked across
beseechingly at her lover. The youth returned her gaze, nodding
encouragingly. Every word spoken by the doctor had burned his soul. His
steady, calm exterior encouraged the girl and she grew calmer.

This ominous silence was broken by the coroner.

“Dr. Jarvis,” he said, “the fact of poisoning can readily be established
by an autopsy. If it reveals, as you assert, the presence of poison,
arrests must follow.”

“Yes, if after the autopsy, you find the guilty one who, being warned,
would flee,” cried the inspector, who had followed the conclusions of
Dr. Jarvis and decided upon his course of action. “While you are looking
for proofs which you are certain to find, if Dr. Jarvis is not mistaken,
and he does not talk like a man who is mistaken, I will take the
precaution of arresting Ross Craighead, on the charge of poisoning or
being an accessory to the poisoning of his father.”

“What a foul lie!” cried the youth, leaping toward the inspector, with
whom he would have grappled like a wild beast, had not the police
interceded. After a violent struggle he was manacled so that he could
threaten no more harm. The inspector was unmoved by this demonstration.
He was calculating the girl must move. Either she would remain calm, as
might be expected of Piggy Bill’s “sweetie,” or she would try to save
Ross. His calculation was perfect. Ross had not yet been subdued when
the girl’s voice could be heard above the tumult. Terror and dismay
mingled in her cry. She rose to her feet and began to speak. An officer
grasped her arm to force her back into her chair, but the inspector
motioned him to release her. He spoke to her across the room.

“Whatever you say, Tessie, will be used against you,” he said. “Do you
want to take the stand again? Perhaps you had better talk to a lawyer?

“No, no,” she cried wildly, “I will tell you everything I know. I did
not understand what it all meant until Dr. Jarvis had explained. Now I
see it all and it is too horrible. That boy you accuse, Ross--you do not
know him. He couldn’t kill a rabbit. He would run his car off a bridge
to keep from hitting a stray cat. He nearly wrecked us once to avoid
hitting a dog. You can do anything to me if he is cleared. But I never
committed murder. I can’t bear suffering in others--I suffer as much as
the one I see in pain. But who is going to believe me, now?”

Slowly she moved to the witness box, where she took the oath again.

“Miss Prettyman,” said Mr. Bailey, “tell us all the facts you know in
connection with Mr. Craighead’s death. Tell us particularly where you
obtained any of the drugs administered to him during the period
following his operation.”

“It is true,” Tessie began, “that I bought all the drugs which
Mr. Craighead needed. All the prescriptions were filled by the Groves
pharmacy. There were two or three for digitalis and one or two for
antiseptic washes. There was another prescription which I must describe.
The day before Mr. Craighead died I went to the prison to see Bill
Hovey.”

The inspector whispered quickly to Mr. Bailey, beside whom he had taken
a chair. The lawyer now saw his cue. The girl was to be sweated. In far
harsher terms than the inspector used for the third degree, he shot out:

“How many times did you go to see this Bill Hovey?”

“Twice, the day before Mr. Craighead died,” she answered dully.

“Bill Hovey, in the parlance of the underworld, is your ‘sweetie,’ is he
not?” pursued the lawyer.

“You filthy cad,” burst from Ross, who tried unavailingly to break his
manacles.

“You’ll be gagged, if you don’t keep quiet,” said one of his guards. But
the inspector turned and motioned for silence.

“Mr. Bailey,” replied the girl, with dignity and resentment, “Bill Hovey
is a man who, I have learned lately, has committed many wrongs, but he
is fifty-two years old and I am twenty-two. He never was my ‘sweetie,’
as you call him, since you are so well acquainted with the underworld;
he is my stepfather.”

There was a murmur of approval from the spectators, who obviously did
not like the way the examination was conducted. Inspector Craven leaned
toward Dr. Jarvis.

“Say, Doc,” he whispered, “I’m beginning to see light. We’re only
getting started. How about you?”

“Did Mr. Craighead and Ross Craighead know that your stepfather was in
prison?” asked Mr. Bailey.

“When Ross Craighead first asked me to dinner at their home,” answered
Tessie, “I knew that he was showing me serious attention. After dinner,
I told Mr. Craighead that I had only come so that I could talk to him
more freely than was possible in the office; I told him that my
stepfather was a drug addict and in prison for having drugs; that he was
an educated man, but of no account, and that he always had plenty of
money, although we never knew him to work. Still he never was mean to us
and I saw little of him after my mother died. Recently I had not seen
him. The last time he saw me he told me he was not as ‘flush’ as he had
been. All this I told Mr. Craighead, thanking him for his kindness. Then
I intended to leave. But he and Ross refused to let me go at all. They
said it was bad enough to have the father’s sins visited on the heads of
their children, without taking in the stepchildren, too.”

                *       *       *       *       *

Prompted by the Inspector, Mr. Bailey continued his questions.

“Why,” he asked, “did you go to see Bill Hovey the day before
Mr. Craighead died?”

“I should not have gone at all,” replied Tessie, “if Mr. Craighead had
not requested it. He sent me out a couple of times to a druggist with an
old prescription for narcotics--morphine--and the druggist refused to
fill it. He knew Dr. Lawson had forbidden it and was afraid. Then the
pain got so bad that Mr. Craighead tossed about moaning all the time.
His tossing only made the pain worse, so he called me early in the
morning.

“‘Tessie,’ he said, ‘do you mind going to that no account stepfather of
yours? Ask him if he can tell you where to get some morphine. Those
fellows always know where it is to be had. Just say that you want to do
me a good turn--that I am in great pain.’

“I asked Ross what to do. He said, ‘I don’t like it at all, but he never
uses it unless he is suffering, so I guess it will be all right to humor
him. He is always brooding over the loss of his foot, so a few hours of
freedom from pain may do him good. He was like this when he sprained his
ankle in a tennis game, two years ago. I thought he would go mad. He
just drugged himself all the time to deaden the pain. The doctor said he
took enough to kill a horse. I often feared he might get the habit, but
he never did.’

“So, I went to see Bill Hovey at the prison. He seemed glad to see me
and told me what an injustice had been done him. He said he felt sure he
could get out if he had money enough to pay the lawyers. After he got
out he intended to go off somewhere and start right again. I told him I
was glad to hear it and then he said:

“‘Tessie, I could fix everything up if I had $10,000. You could get it,
too, to help your father out of trouble.’

“‘How could I get such a sum?’ I asked.

“‘Why, your rich friends, Mr. Craighead and his son, they have all kinds
of money--they would give you $10,000 if you tried them out.’

“‘If that is the price of asking you a favor, Bill Hovey,’ I answered,
‘I may as well go.’

“He changed, then--tried to soothe me--said he would do anything I
wanted--asked me to forget what he had said. Then I asked him where I
could get some morphine. I told him how Mr. Craighead was suffering, but
that I was doing this of my own accord to help him. I didn’t want to
tell Bill anything that might encourage him to try to get money from
Mr. Craighead. He asked me when I was going to be married. I said I
didn’t know--Mr. Craighead wanted us to wait until Ross was well on in
the business, because Ross was to succeed him. He wanted him to learn
the ‘ropes,’ from the beginning.

“‘Tessie,’ he said finally, ‘I’ll do this for you without any strings. I
know of another drug that he can use with the morphine. It is called
scopolamin and is known as a mydriatic. But it has other properties,
too. Do you know anything about it?’

“‘No,’ I answered, I never studied much chemistry.’

“Bill wrote some words hastily. He said it was a prescription which I
was to take to a place near Tarrytown.”

The moment the girl mentioned “Tarrytown,” two hard-faced men in the
court room rose hastily from their seats, one moving toward the door,
the other to a corner of the corridor where there was a telephone booth.
But the inspector, who had followed the girl’s story with the utmost
attention, was watching every one of the spectators in the crowded court
room.

“Get those two men,” he ordered, pointing to the pair, who tried to
force their way along more quickly. The second man actually entered the
telephone booth, frantically moving the lever to signal the operator. An
officer pounced on him before the operator had answered. He struggled
mightily, but handcuffs were slipped on his wrists too quickly for
resistance. His companion reached the door to walk into the arms of
another officer.

                *       *       *       *       *

Pandemonium now reigned in the court room. Two reporters rushed to the
telephone booths. The police made no exception for the men of the press.
For some minutes the confusion was too great for any voice to be heard.
Finally the inspector succeeded in making himself heard, his big,
booming tones dominating the uproar.

“Mr. Coroner,” he began, “nothing but the necessity of preventing a
crafty scoundrel from making his escape could justify my interference
with your jurisdiction. I am an officer sworn to uphold the dignity of
your court as well as that of any other judge or official. But I knew,
if there was a grain of truth in the story that young woman on the stand
was telling, the villain certainly could not be without interest in this
inquest. He would not dare to come himself, nor would he dare to remain
ignorant of what might transpire. Some trusted agent must be present.”

“Will you continue your story, Miss Prettyman?” asked Mr. Bailey, with
more courtesy than he had yet shown the girl.

In a firmer voice, inspired with the hope that her story was gaining
credence, Tessie resumed her narrative.

“Bill wrote the prescription in words I could not understand. He said it
was Latin. I studied a little Latin in school, but not that kind. He
called it medical Latin; besides, the writing was very cramped and would
have been hard to read even in English. The last part of it I could not
make out at all.

“‘He’s an artist,’ said Bill, ‘this druggist you will visit--a man of
parts, though deformed, yet in his art, a creature of meticulous skill.
Fussy he is, too, about his prescriptions--he will always have them very
proper and formal.’

“The prescription bore no address.

“‘Where must I take the prescriptions?’ I asked him.

“‘On 42nd Street,’ he said, ‘off Broadway, look for a taxicab, not one
of the big companies--there is a coat of arms on the door, with a figure
nine above it. Tell the driver Bill sent you with a prescription. He
will take you to the place. It is a long ride, but you need have no
fear.’

“I went to 42nd Street and Broadway, as Bill had told me, but I saw so
many cars that I thought he had tricked me. None of the cars stood more
than a few seconds. While I stood there bewildered, staring at the doors
of all the taxis, one stopped opposite me. The driver motioned to me and
then I noticed that the door had a coat of arms and a figure nine. The
traffic was stopped for an instant. He opened the door for me to step
in. The moment I was in he closed the door and drove off. At first I
thought he was crazy, for he drove around the block three times, then
went over to Sixth Avenue and drove almost recklessly. After that, he
turned again two or three times and I recognized Broadway. We never left
Broadway again until we reached Tarrytown. We passed a number of fine
estates, and several towns, all new to me, for I had never been so far
on that road before. But I did notice that we never turned until we had
passed Tarrytown. Some distance beyond Tarrytown--it may have been a few
miles--the driver took a turn to the left toward the river, until we
came to quite a woods. It looked like part of some big estate that had
not been well kept or from which its owner had been absent a long time.
Weeds grew tall, the fences were broken and it looked quite deserted.

“A kind of wagon track led through a gate, which hung on one hinge, into
the woods. The driver lifted the gate to let the car through, then
closed it again behind him. Some distance from the road, well hidden in
the trees, we came to a house, once a tenanted house, but now looking
very dilapidated. It did not seem a likely place for a drug store--still
I said nothing as my stepfather had directed.

“The car stopped and I stepped out. The driver knocked at the door
twice, rather sharply. Some one peered through a dust-covered window
half closed by rickety shutters. In a second or two the door opened, the
driver mumbled a few words and we were ushered into a strange room by a
misshapen dwarf.

“It was fitted up as a drug store--counters, shelves filled with
bottles, all labeled, graduate glasses such as you see in the hospital,
rolls of bandages, first aid kits and instruments. The druggist was a
hunchback, who filled me with aversion. But he merely held out his hand
for the prescription, turning his hand to his bottles and glasses as
soon as I had given it to him. It was easy to see that he was a skilled
apothecary by the way he handled everything. When he had filled the
prescription he gave me a package. It contained a bottle of colorless
liquid which was labelled: ‘Dose--ten drops with milk or other liquid.’
There was a small box, too, labelled ‘morphine.’ On the bottle was the
word ‘scopolamin.’

                *       *       *       *       *

“The driver was waiting outside the house for me. It seemed good to get
out in the air again. Once in the taxicab, the driver backed in among
the trees to turn around. He drove back along Broadway until he came to
the city line. There he told me that I could return along the subway.
All this mystery so puzzled me that I determined to see Bill again to
learn if the prescription was properly filled. When I saw Bill Hovey I
showed him the bottle. There were many bottles in his cell. He was known
to be a good chemist and worked in the prison drug shop. He took this
bottle and held it to the light. Then he took a sip of it. ‘Seems to be
all right,’ he said. He wrapped up a bottle, but I know now, that he
must have given me a different one. I put it in my pocket. From the
prison I went straight to Mr. Craighead. Boss was with him. I said:

“‘Why all this round-about way to get a little drug? It was all
horrible. I wish that you would not take any more of the stuff.’

“Mr. Craighead just laughed. ‘Well, little girl,’ he said, ‘if a man
insists on buying liquor, he must go to rather ugly looking places to
get it--if he must have morphine, and the doctors will not get it for
him, he must go to even uglier places. But we will never try that
again!’

“That night he took a hypodermic, but never touched the bottle. He kept
all out of sight when Dr. Lawson came the next morning. Toward night his
pain became intense again. That must have been why he used the drug the
misshapen druggist had given me. If I had only known--oh, if I had only
known.”

Tessie gave way to uncontrollable sobbing.

When she had grown somewhat composed, Mr. Bailey asked:

“Could you read the prescription at all?”

“One word, only,” replied Tessie, “Scopolamin.”

“What became of the prescription?”

“There was a file,” said Tessie, “with a number of other prescriptions
filed upon it; the druggist put the one Bill had given me with the
others.”

Half dazed by the ordeal through which she had passed, Tessie walked
unhindered to where Ross sat manacled. Inspector Craven himself removed
the handcuffs from the boy’s wrists. He drew the girl to a chair beside
him.

“Mr. Coroner,” said Inspector Craven, rising, “I am prepared now to make
the extraordinary request which I mentioned before Miss Prettyman had
completed her testimony. There is but one way to test her story fairly.
Assuming, as I do, that her story is true, she would be placed in
jeopardy, if the men who tricked her were allowed to escape. It is
possible to trap the druggist, who doubtless, with mind warped by
affliction, is capable of aiding assassins who use poison. If the court
is willing to hold this session open until I have had time to verify
this extraordinary tale and capture, if possible, the author of a
diabolical plot, several unexplained murders of the same sort may be
solved. But in order that no warning may be given, I request you to make
an order that no one leave this court room until I return.”

“It is an extraordinary request, Inspector Craven,” replied the coroner,
“so extraordinary that I do not know if I have so much arbitrary power.
Before even deciding I must ask you a question to clear up the young
woman’s story. Is it possible that she visited this Hovey in prison and
that it was possible for him to give her writing without detection?”

“When a man like Bill Hovey is captured, Mr. Coroner,” answered the
inspector, “he is often given a great deal of apparent freedom in order
that he may betray his confederates, and also in a narcotic case, that
he may betray the hiding place of a lot of dangerous drugs. It was even
contemplated to release Hovey and keep him under surveillance, but he is
so slippery a character that the plan was abandoned as too risky. Two
men were detailed to follow the young woman on her visit to Hovey. They
were not clever enough for the job. The taxi driver went three times
around the block with the officers two cars behind on his trail. The
driver knew it. He drove around the block until he saw the traffic
signal about to change. He dashed across the street while the officers
waited until the signal was changed again. When they crossed the street
the taxi they were following had disappeared. The taxi, as Miss
Prettyman has related, did not return to the city that night. When she
returned to the prison, the officers who were supposed to be watching
her, were still looking for the taxicab, which they learned had turned
into Broadway. This incident, however, will result in more stringent
rules and curtailment of prisoners’ privileges.

                *       *       *       *       *

“What I propose to do is this,” continued Inspector Craven. “I propose
to take Tessie and Doctor Jarvis with me to Tarrytown. Unless he has
been warned, the druggist will be awaiting news. Two men from this room
are in custody. There may be others posted here. For that reason our
mission will be futile if anyone is permitted to leave.”

“If I make such an order,” said the coroner, “your men will have to
enforce it. No matter how you travel you cannot go to Tarrytown and back
under five hours.”

“That is true, Mr. Coroner,” said the inspector, “yet this is worthy of
consideration. In the last four years there have been seven unexplained
murders through poisons which cannot be obtained without a prescription.
Yet no prescriptions for those poisons have been found nor has the
source of them been traced. Here we have two desperate men skilled in
toxicology with a supply of dangerous substances.”

The coroner hesitated no longer. Rising from his chair, he pronounced
his decree:

“As the presiding officer of this court I hereby enjoin and forbid any
person to leave this courtroom until the return of Inspector Craven or
until he has advised the Court from Tarrytown, which I require him to do
the instant he has accomplished or failed to accomplish his mission.”

An additional detail of officers had arrived. There were a few murmurs
against this exercise of autocratic power, yet the murmurs were soft,
for there was no spectator of the unexpected turn of events in the
courtroom, who did not want to be present at the denouement. Some openly
believed the girl was lying. Others quite vehemently espoused her cause.
Obviously the hours would not be dull in the court room until the party
returned.

The girl, a picture of abject despair, sat at the side of her affianced
lover, uncertain of a future which only a few days before seemed rosy
with the dawn of hope. Turning to her, the inspector said:

“Tessie, you must show the way to the druggist near Tarrytown. It means
freedom and vindication for you and Ross if we verify your words.
Doctor, if we can find that prescription, it will need more Latin than I
ever knew to decipher it. Ross, I think it is coming out right--as right
as it can.”

To this Ross made no reply. He pressed Tessie’s hand in farewell, then
the trio left the courtroom, hundreds of curious eyes following them.
Some women whispered as Tessie passed them:

“Good luck, dearie!”

Inspector Craven, not daring to trust himself, as he remarked to the
doctor, took one of his men along as chauffeur. He feared that he would
drive too fast for safety. So he said to the officer:

“Tarrytown, Beronio, at the best you can get out of her.”

The automobile had a riot car siren, but it is safe to assert that no
riot car ever ran like that one. There were few curves to make and with
a few exceptions, the road was perfectly straight all the way.

The car could run at a speed of over sixty. It ran very nearly that the
entire distance. As they raced along the highway, Tessie felt the
universe slipping from her. The thought of what place in the world might
be hers when this nightmare was over terrified her. The doctor read some
of her thought from her expression and, trying to make her talk pointed
out objects along the road--a difficult task, with the car dashing along
so that telephone and telegraph posts almost resembled a picket fence.
She replied in monosyllables. Finally he said:

“You mustn’t worry so much, my child. What is your anxiety, now?”

“Oh,” she cried, gulping to keep down a sob, “if the hunchback has taken
alarm and gone away, what will become of Ross and me?”

“The shack will still be there, won’t it? That will confirm part of your
story,” said the doctor.

These words bewildered the trembling young woman.

“You don’t believe, then, that I gave him poison deliberately?” she
faltered.

“I would need more proof than we have now,” answered Dr. Jarvis.

To this enigmatic reply there was no response.

They were not long in reaching Tarrytown, where Inspector Craven turned
to Tessie, saying:

“You had better keep your eyes open now for the place where you turned
off the main road. The speedometer says 52 now; if your guess of the
distance is accurate, we should run much slower.”

Beronio ran the car more slowly for three miles, but Tessie did not
recognize the turn. Nearing four miles, as the inspector was beginning
to be assailed by doubts, she said suddenly:

“Just beyond here, I remember, is the cross road. This gateway with the
two stone lions at each side, opened as we passed--a car coming out
delayed us for a moment. It should be less than a city block ahead.”

                *       *       *       *       *

The inspector felt almost cheerful when, two hundred feet farther on,
another road crossed their path.

“To the left, Beronio,” he ordered, “when you come to the trees take the
wagon trail and go just a short distance.”

Inspector Craven said these words fatuously, like a man who has learned
a lesson in which he has not the slightest belief, who has been told to
memorize the first fifty lines and mumbles the words like a talking
doll. They were all unnerved as the final test approached. Mentally, the
inspector blamed the doctor who had led him into a fool journey like
this. Tessie was in a panic, fearing the escape of the dwarf. Dr. Jarvis
alone seemed unconcerned. His tall figure, erect and commanding, his
lips compressed in a firm, straight, uncompromising line, expressed no
doubt whatever. The car stopped. Doctor Jarvis was the first to get out.
Inspector Craven was at his side in an instant. Beronio opened the
crazily hanging gate and ran his car into the shelter of the trees.

“How far did you go into the woods, Tessie?” asked the inspector.

“Possibly four or five blocks,” replied the girl.

“Beronio, give the doctor your gun,” ordered Inspector Craven. “He may
need it. Lead on Tessie, but go softly.”

The evening was coming on, the autumn air was cool and damp in the
neglected woods, weedy, with thick undergrowth; it was difficult to
think of a house of any sort there. Yet they followed the girl,
breathlessly, almost treading on her heels. Five hundred yards they
trudged along the winding path when Tessie stopped.

“Look,” she whispered, pointing to the right.

Both men followed her glance, seeing with relief a dilapidated tenant
house, to all appearances unoccupied, save for an almost imperceptible
thin line of smoke which was just visible above the broken edge of the
chimney. The door was closed, but would probably offer no formidable
obstacle. Shutters hung crazily over the one window which opened on the
front of the house. They were half closed, held by a bit of soiled
ribbon.

“Doc,” whispered the inspector, “I am going to slip over to the door. If
anyone tries to drop out by that side window, use your gun. If any of
Hovey’s gang is about, they won’t mince matters.”

Inspector Craven was himself, now. The house was here, that was certain.
Stealthily he moved toward the door. Unperceived, he gained the doorway,
where he stood for a moment listening for signs of life. Finally he
heard a clinking of glass, a very faint tinkling. He put his big
shoulder against the door. It was bolted and resisted his first assault.
He thought no longer of who might be inside and with a mighty impact,
burst the door open. As he almost fell over the threshold, a shot rang
out and a twinge in the left shoulder told him it was a good shot. But
he fired at the flash, which was followed by a cry of pain. He had hit
his enemy in the gun arm. There was light enough for Craven to see a
hunchback, who stood looking wickedly at the gun which covered him. The
instant the reports rang out Doctor Jarvis and Tessie had run to the
door of the shanty.

“Are you hurt, inspector?” asked Jarvis.

“He winged me in the left shoulder,” said Craven grimly. “If I had not
stumbled when the door gave way it would have been worse, for it was
well aimed for the heart. Pretty lookin’ bird, ain’t he? Is he the one
who filled the prescription, Tessie?”

“Yes,” replied the girl, while the dwarf looked at her malevolently.

A small fire burned in an open stove. As the doctor, seeing the blood on
Inspector Craven’s coat, began to examine him to learn the extent of his
injury, the hunchback, with a quick movement, grasped a bundle of papers
spiked on a file and threw them into the stove.

“The prescriptions, the prescriptions!” cried Tessie, in a panic.

                *       *       *       *       *

Forgetting his wound, the inspector leaped at the hunchback, felling him
to the floor with a heavy blow from the butt of his revolver. He sank to
the floor, motionless. Doctor Jarvis had darted to the stove from which
he retrieved the sheaf of papers, little the worse from the flames
except where the hot coals had singed the edges. The doctor’s fingers
suffered most from contact with the embers.

“Tessie,” said the inspector, nursing his wounded shoulder, “run through
those papers. See if you can find anything that looks like the
prescription Bill Hovey gave you.”

Eagerly enough, now, she lifted one sheet after another from the file.
Not far from the top she came on one which she examined carefully.

“This is it,” she said, holding it out for Dr. Jarvis to read. His
professional instincts, however, overcame his curiosity.

“Inspector,” he cried, somewhat shamefacedly, remorseful for neglect
toward a wounded friend, “let us have a look at that shoulder first.”

“It hurts like the devil,” said Inspector Craven, “but that bird is
stirring, so safety first. Take a pair of handcuffs out of my pocket and
snap them on his wrists. He would blow us all up and himself, too, if he
got the chance.”

Dr. Jarvis secured the misshapen dwarf, clumsily enough, then looked at
his wound. The dwarf’s arm was bleeding. Without too great delay, for he
was much more worried over the inspector than over the misshapen
druggist, he bound the wound tightly to prevent further bleeding. In all
this commotion, although he stirred, the man did not regain
consciousness. He had been dealt a stiff blow.

The inspector was not seriously wounded. The bullet fired by the
hunchback, from a vicious little automatic .25 had gone straight through
the shoulder muscles, severing the smaller blood vessels. It was a
matter of a few minutes to dress the wound, but Craven was impatient to
learn the truth. Had they found the prescription? If they had, his wound
mattered little. If not, he was a fool. He had made a melodrama of a
coroner’s investigation. If without cause, he was a zany. With cause, he
preserved his self-respect at least.

“Doc,” he said, as soon as the bandage was drawn tight and a tourniquet
applied, “see what kind of a fist Piggy Bill writes. If it’s the
literature the little lady says, I’ll bet it against Shakespeare.”

Doctor Jarvis then spread the paper Tessie had given him on the counter,
while Tessie and the inspector leaned over his shoulder.

“The first paragraph calls for morphine and scopolamin,” said he. “But
scopolamin has no virtue in a surgical case. But wait,” he added, “there
is more. My God, what infamy!”

For a moment he was speechless, then began reading words
incomprehensible to his hearers.

“Monsieur et cher ami:” was the salutation, then came the following
words: “C’est bien drôle que le mot ‘scopolamin’ et le mot qui exprime
l’extrait de la noix vomique ont la meme total; il serait bien dommage
si l’on prendrait l’un pour l’autre.”

“What does it all mean?” asked Inspector Craven.

“Well,” answered the doctor, “it is not medical Latin nor any other kind
of Latin. It is written in fairly good French, not at all difficult to
follow. This is how it reads: ‘My dear friend: it is very curious that
the word “scopolamin” and the word which signifies the extract of nux
vomica have the same number of letters. It would be sad if one mistook
the one for the other.’

“That was why he told Tessie scopolamin would help Craighead. It
happened to have the same number of letters the way he spelled it
(without the ‘e’) as strychnine. Strychnine is an alkaloid of nux
vomica. He knew Tessie was ignorant of French--the rest was easy. But I
don’t understand what he hoped to gain by it.”

“What, a hard-boiled guy like that?” shouted the inspector. “Hell, he
needed $10,000. If Tessie got married he would send for her and tell the
story counting on her fear to see that he got enough to pay the lawyer
who guaranteed to get him out. Why, this bunch saw Tessie paying
blackmail for murder the next ten years.” Then turning to the girl, he
continued:

“Tessie, you have our compliments. I hope fortune will smile on you.
This has been a terrible ordeal for a young girl.”

“Indeed,” sobbed the girl, as reaction set in, “I do not care about
fortune, now. How can I live, knowing that I helped kill my benefactor,
the one who was as much a father to me as my own might have been had he
lived.”

The doctor took the bundle of prescriptions and with a number of vials
containing prohibited drugs, narcotics and toxic substances, they
returned to the car, the doctor forcing the hideous looking dwarf to
walk beside him. They found his name to be Timothy Clegg, from one of
the prescriptions. He was bundled into the car and the return journey to
the metropolis began. At Tarrytown, the inspector stopped long enough to
have a couple of officers sent to guard the drug store hidden in the
woods, so that no evidence might be destroyed. In the prescriptions were
enough orders for deadly poisons, signed by Piggy Bill Hovey, to damn
him many times over. The proof in the Craighead case was convincing.

Inspector Craven then telephoned the coroner of the success of their
mission. Beronio returned to town in more leisurely fashion. When they
arrived at the Coroner’s Court with their prisoner and the inspector
showing the evidences of a battle, the scene that followed beggared all
description. Handcuffed and heavily guarded, the dwarf sullenly glared
at his captors. Inspector Craven, despite his wound, took the stand. He
described their journey in complete detail, verifying Tessie’s story.
Calls for order failed to check the applause for the girl.

                *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Jarvis followed the inspector. He identified the prescription, and
gave its hideous import so vividly that the spectators shuddered. The
jury took but a few minutes to render a verdict.

As the verdict was announced, a finely dressed woman murmured audibly:

“What a monstrous injustice! That young man inherits all his father’s
wealth, although he helped to kill him.”

She was one of Jim Craighead’s numerous cousins and chagrined that his
big estate was beyond her reach. Ross Craighead was too far away to hear
her remark, but she heard his reply breathlessly, for he rose to his
feet, before the crowd, dazed by the rapid turn of events. He took hold
of Tessie’s arm, and stood near the coroner.

“I want to say to you, Mr. Coroner, publicly,” he began, “to Dr. Jarvis
and to Inspector Craven, that after what has been revealed here today,
it is impossible for me to take one penny from my father’s estate. His
will makes Dr. Jarvis executor and gives him certain powers of
distribution, in case I, for any reason, do not succeed to the property.
Since I, however innocently, was, with Tessie, the instrument of his
death, the money would come to me stained with blood. Yet this tragedy
has knitted the fate of Tessie and myself in an indissoluble way. With
what we have, we leave this city tonight--we shall be married at once.
Then we shall go far from this place of dreadful memories to live as
best we can, what life has in store for us. If we are free, we will go
at once.”

“You are free,” said the coroner. “All the evidence is now on record.”

The crowd moved aside to let them pass. As they moved toward the door,
the girl clutched with both hands, the arm of her partner in crime.
Unwilling criminals!

The dwarf was never tried. He was found dead in his cell the next
morning, despite the careful guard set to prevent his suicide. A small
capsule in his mouth showed that he was always prepared for the
possibility of capture. Piggy Bill died mysteriously before any charge
was presented against him. “Suicide,” remarked Inspector Craven, “as
Webster once said, is confession.”

A year later, Dr. Jarvis received an announcement from Sydney,
Australia, telling of the birth of “Jim Craighead, Second,” “a
wonderful, blond boy, healthy and noisy.” The doctor smiled as he
recalled that his power of appointment had not been exercised.


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the August 1927 issue
of Amazing Stories Magazine.]






*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE SHADOW ON THE SPARK ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


