The Project Gutenberg eBook of The catspaw of Piperock
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: The catspaw of Piperock

Author: W. C. Tuttle

Release date: January 7, 2025 [eBook #75062]

Language: English

Original publication: New York: The Butterick Publishing Company, 1929

Credits: Roger Frank and Sue Clark


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CATSPAW OF PIPEROCK ***





THE CATSPAW OF PIPEROCK

By W. C. Tuttle


    Ike Harper and Dirty Shirt Jones return in a hilarious
    story of the Christmas Season


Dirty Shirt Jones and Scenery Sims got religion. That in itself ain’t of
much interest, unless you knew these two. I’ve knowed lots of men who
got religion jist like Dirty Shirt and Scenery got it. Remorse, that’s
what she was--not religion. Too much liquor on an empty stummick. I’ve
felt the error of my ways from the same cause.

Dirty Shirt Jones wasn’t very big. His face was kinda antegodlin’, and
one eye sorta roamed around indefinite-like, usually comin’ to rest with
the pupil lookin’ down the length of his nose, as though amazed at the
crookedness of said organ. Dirty Shirt had some quaint ideas of humor,
and as far back as I can remember, he’s harbored a deadly hatred against
the towns of Yaller Horse and Paradise. Bein’ a loyal Piperocker he
couldn’t do otherwise.

Scenery Sims is smaller than Dirty Shirt. He’s a hard little devil, this
here Scenery Sims, almost bald, square above the ears, with eyes like a
pair of faded shoe buttons, one flarin’ ear--and a sense of loyalty to
Piperock.

It’s December in Piperock. There’s only one tree between Piperock and
the North Pole, which don’t noways temper the wind to the shorn lamb.
Piperock ain’t no metropolis--but, gentlemen, she’s a town. We sink or
swim, live or die, survive or perish together. As Magpie Simpkins says,
“We’re one and indigestible.”

Me and Dirty Shirt have been tryin’ to wrest some wealth from the bosom
of Mother Nature on the headwaters of Plenty Stone Creek, but the
weather drove us back to the fleshpots, where we’re doomed to spend the
rest of the winter. I’ve been spendin’ two days against a stove, tryin’
to git some heat inside my frozen carcass. When I does pilgrim uptown, I
finds old Dirty Shirt settin’ on the sidewalk in front of Buck
Masterson’s saloon. He’s humped up there, with his old mackinaw collar
above his ears, hands shoved down inside his old yaller angora chaps,
settin’ there in the snow, the thermometer below zero--and right behind
him is the saloon, where boot heels are sizzlin’ against the old base
burner, and water gittin’ hot for the next round of drinks.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Magpie had told me that Dirty and Scenery were paralyzed drunk the day
before, and I had a hunch that Dirty had froze to death. But he wasn’t
dead. His active eye does a few loops, steadies down to a strained
contemplation of that crooked nose, and he says to me--

“The way of the transgressor is pretty damn’ tough, Ike Harper.”

“All depends on how heavy your underclothes are,” says I. “How about a
shot of hot liquor?”

“Strong drink is ragin’, Ike.”

“So’s the thermometer.”

“I’m repentin’ of my sins.”

“Well, you’ve shore got a long hard season ahead of you, Dirty Shirt.
Where does it hurt you worst? You ain’t done got religion, have you?”

“My sins are heavy among me, Ike. I’ve shot and slashed and cut and
cussed pretty much all m’ life.”

“Not countin’ horse and cattle stealin’, card markin’ and other forms of
malignant sins,” I reminds him. “But freezin’ to death ain’t goin’ to
wipe ’em out none to speak about. Why not try goin’ to the penitentiary
for life?”

“Wouldn’t pay me out, Ike; I’m half through livin’ right now. Me and
Scenery got it together. He’s repentin’ in sackcloth and ashes right
now.”

“Yea-a-ah--but I’ll bet he ain’t sucker enough to freeze along with
’em.”

“Old Testament Tilton told us--”

“You ain’t takin’ his word for it, are you, Dirty?”

“He’s our preacher, ain’t he? Me and Scenery went to church.”

“How in hell did anybody ever git you two in church?”

Dirty’s eye wobbles a lot, but pretty soon she jerks back to attention.

“They ain’t got no bell,” he says kinda sad-like. “No bell on the
church. Don’tcha know it’s a shame--no bell on the church. Fact of the
matter is, it don’t look like no church. It’s a shame for a place to not
even look like a church. I tell you I’m goin’ to do somethin’ for that
church. I’m goin’ to fix her up so she’ll look and sound like a church.”

“What’ll you use for money?” I asks.

“I’ll sell my horseless carriage to the highest bidder.”

I laughs through my chatterin’ teeth.

“Scenery might sell his camel,” says I, merely as a suggestion.

That camel was always a sore spot with Dirty Shirt. Him and Scenery
owned a placer mine back on Dog Town Creek, and they cleaned up about
fifteen hundred dollars, before the little pay streak played out. Durin’
that time, Dirty discovered a stretch of pretty good lookin’ quartz, and
him and Scenery decides to work it. They needed machinery; so Scenery
takes his share of the money and heads for Butte to buy the machinery.

In about a week he shows up, half drunk, leadin’ a moth-eaten camel. It
seems that he got drunk in Butte, got in an argument with a feller over
how long a camel could go without drinkin’, bought a camel from a
travelin’ carnival and came back to prove he was right.

Naturally, Dirty Shirt got awful mad. He busted up his partnership with
poor Scenery, bought Scenery out for fifty dollars, and went to Butte
himself to get the machinery. And then he came back, trailin’ an old
automobile behind a pair of misbegotten mules. He had got drunk, bought
six hundred dollars’ worth of chances on a raffle--and won the danged
thing.

It was the second automobile to ever come to Piperock, and a vigilance
committee waited on Dirty Shirt right away; so Dirty stored it in the
Piperock Livery Stable, where it couldn’t scare anythin’. Scenery kept
his camel out at his shack, and put a warnin’ on the gate, which read:

                         BEWAIR THE CAMUEL
                       THE DAMN THING BIGHTS.

Scenery called it Araby. The danged thing smelt like a street in Frisco
Chinatown, and it would bite. Acted most of the time as though it had a
bad bellyache. The vigilance committee also warned Scenery to keep his
menagerie off the main roads, ’cause every bronc that saw it throwed a
fit and its rider at the same time.

Anyway, Dirty Shirt wouldn’t come in out of the cold; so I left him
there and went into Buck’s place, where I finds Magpie Simpkins, Buck
Masterson, Wick Smith and Old Testament Tilton, all settin’ around the
old stove. While Old Testament is our minister, he’s broad minded, six
feet six inches tall, and no man ever had a more “if I die right now you
won’t hear a squawk out of me” expression on his face. Accordin’ to him,
there ain’t no livin’ man knows more about hell. Magpie says Old
Testament will prob’ly git a job as a guide down there, after he’s dead.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Magpie Simpkins is and has been my pardner for years. He’s as tall as
Testament, wears a flowin’ mustache, and is a livin’ example of a man
who never did mind his own business. He thinks his mission in life is to
elevate humanity. His brain is filled with wonderful ideas, but each and
every one is shy some sort of a dingus that makes ’em tick. But he’ll
back any of his ideas with a six-gun or a neck yoke, when all else
fails.

Wick Smith is a retired killer. He still retains the disposition, plus a
walrus mustache and some bunions. He runs the Piperock Merchandise
Company, and agrees with his wife, who scales two hundred and sixty.
Buck Masterson was suspected of many things, before he settled down to
runnin’ a saloon. He ain’t so tall, but he’s got plenty waist, big
shoulders and skinny legs. On the Fourth of July he wears a collar, and
on Christmas he adds a necktie to same.

Them four pelicans is plannin’ somethin’, I can see that right away; so
I backed out and went home. I’m scared of them fellers, and when they
git to plannin’ anythin’ I want to be outside their plans. Magpie didn’t
say nothin’ when he came home, but he’s got somethin’ on his mind, and I
seen him sneakin’ a few peeks at a little black book.

“Whatcha got there?” I asks, but he don’t answer.

But I sneaked it out of his overalls pocket that night, and it’s a
Bible. I’ve knowed Magpie to have most everything else, but this is his
first time to pack a Bible. I didn’t say anythin’, but I got all set to
listen to mornin’ prayers. Mebbe he wasn’t that far gone, ’cause he
didn’t pray, but he did mention that fact that Dirty Shirt Jones had
turned over a new leaf and bid fair to become a valuable citizen of
Piperock.

It was the followin’ mornin’ after that, when I went up to Buck’s place.
I knowed I had twenty dollars in my pocket; so I invited those present
to partake with me, which they did with cold weather alacrity, as you
might say. Magpie was one of the elect. But when I dug deep for my
twenty, my gropin’ hand encounters a lot of hunks of cardboard.

I took out a handful and looked ’em over. They’re about two inches
square, with a pen and ink number on one side, and on the other is
written:

Good for one chance.

I dug once more, but there ain’t no money in my pocket. Buck looks at me
kinda dumb-like, and I says softly--

“Charge this up to me, Buck--until after the funeral.”

“No hurry,” says he.

I counted them tickets, and I’ve got twenty. Magpie smoothes his
mustache and watches me in the back bar mirror. Then he clears his
throat and says--

“It’ll be somethin’ we’ll all date time from, gents.”

“To me,” says I, “it’ll be jist a justified killin’, you long geared
pickpocket. You took that twenty out of my pocket and put in them
numbered cards.”

“Blessed be the meek,” says Old Testament.

“Meek be damned! I want my money. What are these chances on, anyway?”

“Scenery Sims’ autymobile,” says Buck. “It cost a thousand, new. If you
can win it for twenty dollars--”

I blowed right up, but Wick Smith cramped my gun hand and tried to
explain:

“It’s to build a new church and buy a bell. It means advancement for
Piperock. Here’s Old Testament, grown as gray as a jackrabbit, tryin’ to
chase the devil away from us. He’s been a long laborer in the vineyard
of the Lord, and we’ve got to show our appreciation. Our church don’t
look like a church. There ain’t no bell. Your twenty will do more good
where it is right now than over Buck’s bar.”

“You don’t need to git so damn’ enthusiastic,” growled Buck. “I’ve gotta
live, ain’t I?”

“That’s all fine,” says I, “but I don’t never go to church. I’m master
of my own soul, and I don’t need no sky pilotin’. I wouldn’t give twenty
dollars to that church, even if they’d give me Testament’s hide and
taller as a bonus. And that was the only twenty dollars I had left.”

“It is better to give than to receive,” says Testament. “Just remember
that Dirty Shirt is donatin’ that autymobile, free gratis for nothin’.
There’s a lot of tickets bein’ sold in Paradise and Yaller Horse, and
the grand drawin’ is to be held at the Mint Hall on Christmas Eve. We’re
goin’ to give the best entertainment that’s ever been given in this
country.”

“I don’t care,” says I. “I won’t be here.”

“You’ll be here,” says Magpie. “As one of the local donators, you’ll be
here to see that it’s a success.”

                 *        *        *        *        *

I walked out of there and went down to Dirty’s shack, where I found
Dirty and Scenery. They’ve got a bottle and a warm fire.

“How’s religion?” I asks, as I imbibes about the full of a mule’s ear.

“To’able,” says Scenery. “Day after t’morrow is Christmas, usually
spelled with an X. Know why they spell it thataway, Ike? The X marks
where the body fell. Me and Dirty Shirt are gettin’ organized.”

“I thought you fellers had religion.”

“We did have,” nods Dirty.

“Oh, we need a reg’lar church,” says Scenery. “We need one that you can
see and recognize. That danged church we’ve got now looks like a saloon.
I’ll leave it to you, if it don’t. We need one with a belfry.”

“We do,” agrees Dirty. “Oh, we shore do. The present one is a shame and
a disgrace. I’m doin’ my part, ain’t I? They’re rafflin’ off my
autymobile.”

“Will the danged thing run?” I asks.

“Shore will. It’s got gas’line in her, and all you’ve got to do is twist
the crank. Run? My Gawd, that thing’ll rear right up and paw the sky.
Stands me five hundred on the hoof right now. They’re goin’ to put
planks on the Mint Hall stairs and run her into the hall, where all may
gaze upon same.”

“And I’ve donated Araby,” says Scenery, grabbin’ for the bottle.

“They ain’t goin’ to raffle that thing, are they?”

“They shore ain’t! Raffle Araby? Huh! Nossir, they ain’t. I dunno what
they want Araby for, but I’ve done made the loan to Magpie and
Testament. I reckon the camule is part of the entertainment. I hope he
don’t eat an arm off somebody--unless they’re from Yaller Horse or
Paradise.”

                 *        *        *        *        *

I stayed all night with them two public spirited men, and the next day
I’m so filled with remorse that I almost got religion. Along about
midnight Dirty went out to git some wood, forgot to shut the door, when
he came back, and when I woke up in the mornin’ I had one frozen ear.

I asked Magpie what the performance was to be, and he asked me if I knew
what Christmas was all about. I said it was a time when folks traded
shirts, as far as I could understand. He said for me to attend, and I’d
learn what it was about. I told him I thought I would, bein’ as it had
already cost me twenty dollars. I went down to Paradise that afternoon,
and almost froze my other ear. Paradise town is about the same size as
Piperock, but if all their morals were laid end to end you’d have to use
calipers and a magnifyin’ glass to measure ’em.

I finds Tombstone Todd, Hair Oil Heppner and Hip Shot Harris over from
Yaller Horse, and if there ever was an unholy trinity, these are it.
Tombstone tries to question me a lot about our festivities, but I don’t
respond very much, ’cause I don’t know enough about it myself.

“Peace on earth!” snorts Hip Shot. “Good will toward men! Does that mean
men from Piperock? I’d crave to know about it, that’s what I’d crave?”

“It means _men_,” says Hair Oil. “That natcherally cuts out critters
from Piperock. I heard the same thing, Hip Shot. Magpie Simpkins and his
misguided cohorts aim to kinda soft soap us fellers. I know him of old.
His dove of peace usually turns out to be a chicken hawk. I won’t go up
there at no danged Christmas time.”

“Piperock will be glad about that,” says I. “They sent me down here to
find out how many of you ain’t comin’. I’ll mark Hair Oil off my list.”

“Mark me off, too,” says Hip Shot.

“You’re off. How about you, Tombstone?”

“I’m comin’. Like a danged fool I bought ten tickets on that raffle, and
I attends to see that no skulduggery is practiced.”

“If you ain’t there, your tickets ain’t legal.”

“Mark me back on,” says Hair Oil and Hip Shot together.

“There’s bound to be skulduggery,” adds Hair Oil. “I p’tects my dollar.”

Over at Hank Padden’s saloon I finds ’em playin’ poker, usin’ tickets as
legal tender, and only bein’ discounted fifty per cent. I got into that
game and lost nineteen tickets on the first jackpot. I’d have lost
twenty, but I’d misplaced one of ’em, and didn’t find it until I was
halfway home. Old Tombstone Todd won ’em all from me.

Paradise has always wanted that autymobile, and as far as I can see,
most of the town are comin’ up to our shindig. Paradise can’t get along
together well enough to ever pull off a celebration; so they’ve got to
git outside their own limits, if they ever want entertainment.

                 *        *        *        *        *

I didn’t go uptown that evenin’, but stayed at our shack. Magpie wasn’t
at home, and I knew he was as busy as a rat-tail bronc in fly time. He’s
always the movin’ spirit in Piperock, and up to the present time, I’m
the sacrificial goat that you read about in the Bible. But not this
time. For once in his life Ike Harper, Esquire, is goin’ to set back and
let somebody else be the burnt offerin’.

About nine o’clock that night Dirty Shirt comes down to my cabin.

“Do you want to re’lize on them tickets you got, Ike?” he asks. “We’ve
plumb run out of cardboard, and the market is good in Paradise. I can
git you jist what you paid.”

“I’ll ride on what I’ve got,” says I, kickin’ myself for that poker
game. “I may win that machine myself.”

“Don’t be a danged fool, Ike. It ain’t got no brakes. Why, the whole
thing is loose. Anyway, you can’t run it around here. Let Paradise or
Yaller Horse have it. They won’t live long enough to enjoy it much.”

Then I told him about the poker game. I’d found the other ticket, but
one ticket wasn’t worth botherin’ about.

“You’re the only person in Piperock who has a ticket; so I reckon the
town is safe for democracy. We’ve done collected enough to build the new
church, and the admission fees will hang a bell on her.”

“Why are you and Scenery Sims so interested in havin’ a new church?”

“The other one is a disgrace, Ike; it looks like a saloon. Well, I’ve
got to go back and rehearse.”

“Rehearse?”

“Shore. I’m one of the Three Wise Men.”

“Who’r the other two?”

“Magpie and Tellurium Woods.”

“Yeah, you better go back and rehearse, Dirty Shirt. You three jiggers
will shore need a lot of rehearsin’ for a job like that.”

“The Cross J quartette will sing. And Bill Thatcher’s orchestry will
render plenty.”

“Well, that isn’t anythin’ to git excited about. There’s a lot of things
I’d rather hear than Telescope Tolliver, Muley Bowles, Chuck Warner and
Henry Clay Peck singin’. They’re awful, but they ain’t as bad as
Thatcher’s orchestra, accordion, bull fiddle and a jew’s-harp, playin’
‘Sweet Marie’. I ain’t finicky about m’ music either.”

“The rest of it’ll be good, Ike. It’s a specktickle. Livin’ pitchers, as
you might say. Well, I’ve got to go back. We’re puttin’ the autymobile
up into the Mint Hall, and we’ve got to cut out the side of the wall at
the top of the stairs. We’ll elevate the machine up on a couple saw
horses, where everybody can look her over. Goin’ to run her up on
planks, with a block and fall.”

It shore was a good lookin’ machine, all fancy with shiny paint and
brass dinguses. We never had but one other machine in Piperock, and
somebody put dynamite under that one. Yaller Rock County is a horse
country.

I don’t reckon that machine would do very well in Paradise. But them
Paradise and Yaller Horse folks will buy raffle chances on anythin’.
They are so danged crooked themselves that they think Piperock is goin’
to pull a crooked deal on the raffle. And me with the only ticket in
Piperock! I don’t know what the odds are against me, but if they’ve
already got enough money to build the new church, them Paradisers and
Yaller Horses has shore dug deep in the old sock. But it’s all right
with me--I’m lookin’ for competition. I don’t want the danged machine.
I’ve got a horse and a burro, and that’s plenty rollin’ stock for one
man in my position. I ain’t even goin’ to the entertainment. I’m goin’
to stand Buck off for a couple quarts and spend a quiet evenin’ beside
my own fire.

                 *        *        *        *        *

Well, I got the couple quarts all right, and I packed plenty wood into
the old shack for the evenin’. Then I put my gun on the table beside me,
declared plenty peace on earth, good will toward all men, and settled
down to enjoy life. Once in a while I can hear a few shots fired uptown,
but nothin’ to speak about. Christmas is usually quiet thataway, and
mostly always it’s so danged bitter cold that it freezes up the grease
in a six-gun so badly that you can’t shoot it outdoors. Most of our
killin’s are done indoors durin’ the winter months.

I’m setting there by the fire, kinda dreamin’, when all to once the door
flies open and there is Magpie and Tellurium.

“Merry Christmas,” says Tellurium. “Git on your hat, Ike.”

“I don’t wear no hat in the house,” says I, reachin’ for my gun, but
Magpie beat me to it. Without that gun, I’m outnumbered.

“Here’s the whole thing in a nutshell, Ike,” says Magpie. “Wick Smith
fell down the chimbley durin’ rehearsal a while ago, and he busted his
collarbone. You’re the only man who can take his place on short notice.
Git your hat.”

“Nothin’ less than murder will git me up in that hall,” says I. “Right
now I’m filled with the milk of human kindness, but don’t agitate me.
All I crave is to be left alone.”

Well, they both talked with me plenty, and like a fool I let ’em lead me
uptown. I don’t know what they want of me, but what chance have I got
against two men, both bigger ’n I am, and three guns? If Wick Smith,
sober, fell down and busted his collarbone, what’ll happen to me?
Gravity is somethin’ I ain’t never found out how to defy, and if there’s
any rubber in my system, it shore crawls to the upper side every time I
fall off anythin’. I pleads a plenty, but it falls on deaf ears; so I
resigns myself to fate, reservin’ the right to kill both of ’em as soon
as I git around to an even break.

They leads me up to the Mint Hall, where everybody in the world is
congregated, and takes me around to the rear of the big platform, across
the front of which is stretched a big black curtain. They’ve shore cut a
big hole in the side of the wall to git that autymobile through, and
there she sets on a couple saw horses and some heavy planks. They’ve got
the old hall decorated with green branches, and the orchestra is already
murderin’ “Sweet Marie”, playin’ it in jig time. After while they’ll
play it for a march, play it for the openin’ hymn, and then change the
time for the first waltz. I looks over the assemblage with fear and
tremblin’. There ain’t a paid murderer in the whole gang-- They do their
stuff for nothin’.

“Thank Gawd, there ain’t no Piperocker ownin’ any tickets on that
raffle,” says Magpie. “If Paradise or Yaller Horse don’t win that
autymobile, it’s ’cause they’ve lost the right ticket.”

I reckon Dirty Shirt has told Magpie about me losin’ mine in that poker
game--that is, all except one. I’m wonderin’ if they know the money is
to be used to uplift Piperock. Prob’ly not. There ain’t no church in
Paradise or Yaller Horse, and if they thought for a minute that Piperock
was goin’ to have somethin’ they ain’t got, they’d never bought them
chances.

                 *        *        *        *        *

We climbed in at the back of that big platform, and I fell over a
ladder. There was more danged carpenter stuff around, and it seemed as
though most everybody in Piperock was in there.

“Oh, I’m glad you came, Ike,” says Mrs. Smith. “Poor Wickie had a
ter’ble fall.”

“You’ll do fine in his place,” says Mrs. Dugout Dulin, who is six feet
six inches tall, and will weigh about a hundred and ten. They ain’t got
no bathtub in their house--they use a shotgun barrel.

I’m too full of Christmas cheer to pay much attention, and like a fool I
let ’em dress me in a buffalo robe coat, string me with sleigh bells,
and try to tell me all about it at the same time.

“No time to rehearse,” pants Magpie, cinchin’ up my belt. “Anyway,
you’ll know what to do, Ike. That’s fine! Where’s the whiskers?”

There’s an apparition holdin’ the lantern, and it gradually dawns on me
that this is Dirty Shirt. He’s got a white cloth wound around his head,
and his figure is draped with one of Mrs. Smith’s front room curtains.
And there’s old Tellurium Woods, naked to the waist, with a homemade
horsehair wig on his bald head. From his waistline to his boot tops he’s
wearin’ a Navaho rug. I begin to see things a little plainer, and my
eyes focus on somethin’ that’s hangin’ from the ceilin’.

“Whazzat?” I asks.

“That,” says Dirty Shirt, “is the star of--of--where was it, Tellurium?”

“I dunno the exact location. Pete Gonyer made it for us. Iron star, with
a glass front. Put a candle in her, and she looks like somethin’.”

They started to tell me more about it, but jist about that time Magpie
and Scenery hooks some sort of a doodad around my chin, ties it off
tight in a few places, and I looks down at about three feet of chin
whiskers. They kinda shoot out from jist below my lower lip like a
waterfall, and they shore smell awful horsey.

“There!” says Magpie. “You look more like Santa Claus than Wick did.”

I try to say somethin’, but I’m whisker bound. I talk through my nose,
but I can’t even understand what I’m sayin’. Magpie explains what I’ve
got to do. They’ve got a chimbley all built. It’s about ten feet tall,
and about three feet square. At the bottom is what looks kinda like a
fireplace.

“Here’s your chore,” says Magpie. “You climb that ladder to the top of
the chimbley. There’s a ladder built inside for you to come down. Your
act is the last on the bill. Up to that time, your chimbley is part of
the stable. When we git everythin’ cleared after the next to the last
act, we make this up to look like a room in the house. Mrs. Smith will
recite a poem entitled ‘It Was The Night Before Christmas’, and while
she’s recitin’, you come down the chimbley. There’ll be a Christmas
tree, and you’ll have some doojinguses to hang on it, while she speaks.
And that’s about all. We aims to show the folks jist why Christmas
started; sabe? Linda show the modern way of celebratin’, jist as a--a
extra act, as you might say. Mebbe you better git up there jist before
the show starts; so as to be all set. Now, I’ve got to see that the
raffle is all pulled off right.”

I got up out of that chair, kinda gropin’ in the dark. I wanted to git
that horse’s tail off my chin, so I could talk a little, but that heavy
coat and all them sets of sleigh bells prevents me from liftin’ my arms.
I’m jinglin’ around, grabbin’ for somethin’ or somebody to support me,
when all to once, somethin’ grabbed me by the whiskers and gave an awful
yank.

It knocked my feet from under me, but I didn’t fall down, ’cause I was
still suspended by the whiskers, and I looked up at the flarin’ nose of
Araby, the Scenery Sims camel. The damn’ thing has got me by the
whiskers, kinda holdin’ me up at arm’s length, as it were. And then the
blamed thing began to swing me around. My neck is jist about to break,
when all to once the toggle busts, and I went end over end out through
the black curtain, hit the edge of the platform on the seat of my pants,
where I ricocheted straight out and landed with both legs around Bill
Thatcher’s neck.

There’s a lot of yellin’, but it don’t mean much to me and Bill and his
bull fiddle. Willin’ hands separated us, and somebody hauled me back
onto the platform, where they yanked me back behind the curtain.

“I’m through Santa Clausin’,” says I. “No damn’ camel is goin’ to use me
for a sling shot.”

“Swaller your gorge,” says Magpie. “You ain’t hurt.”

“You take that camel home, or I won’t play with you.”

“We’ve got to have that camel, Ike.”

There’s so much yellin’ out in front that you can’t hear anythin’.

“C’mon with that raffle!”

“Throw Ike out again!”

“Start your show, before we freeze to death!”

Old Judge Steele and Old Testament Tilton went out on the platform. The
judge has a sawed off shotgun and Testament has a Bible.

“Peace!” says Testament, holdin’ up his right hand.

“Or-r-rder in the house!” snaps the judge, and cocks both barrels.

“We’ll open with a prayer,” says Testament.

“Show your openers,” snorts Tombstone Todd. “And what’s a lot more, we
never came up here to listen to prayers. If you’ve got any prayers to
offer, go behind that curtain and offer ’em to Piperock. Ain’t that
right, folks?”

“Yea verily,” says Dog Rib Davidson, of Yaller Horse, standin’ up. “I’d
like to say a few words. I’ve got ten tickets on that raffle--”

“I’ve got eighty!” snaps Tombstone. “Set down, Dog Rib. I’ve done
promised Mrs. Todd that autymobile.”

“You’ve got a lot of nerve,” growls Hank Padden. “Better wait’ll you win
it.”

                 *        *        *        *        *

Magpie went out on the platform. He’s got a basket with all the numbers
in it.

“We’ll pull off the raffle, Testament,” he says. “No use prayin’ to or
for that bunch of horsethieves. No use wastin’ your breath, ’cause the
Lord would discount anythin’ you could say good about ’em, anyway.

“I’ve got all the numbers in this basket, folks. I’ll select somebody to
draw a number, which will designate the winner. Judge, will you do the
drawin’?”

“Not for mine, he don’t!” yelps Tombstone. “Not for mine. You’ve got to
deal off the top of the deck to us this time, Magpie. I suggests that my
wife draw the number.”

That seemed to suit everybody; so Mrs. Todd waddled up and drew out a
number.

It was number eighteen, and you never seen such a scramble to look over
tickets. One after another, I hear ’em cussin’ their luck. Tombstone and
his wife are talkin’ their numbers out loud, and they ain’t hittin’
nowhere near the right number. The room is kinda still after the
countin’ is all done, and when Testament clears his throat, it sounds
like somebody tearin’ a horse blanket.

“Who has the lucky number?” he asks. “Who has eighteen?”

Nobody speaks, and I suddenly realize that I’ve got that number in my
pocket. It’s the one I couldn’t find when I was in that poker game. I
manage to unhook that big coat, and I got the ticket out. It’s number
eighteen.

I stepped out on the platform and handed it to Testament, who squints at
it over his glasses.

“Ike Harper wins,” he says.

The crowd is kinda dumb over it all. Magpie grabs me by the arm and
hustles me back through the curtain.

“I’ve won me a horseless carriage,” says I. “One ticket was all I had.”

“Jist enough to start a killin’,” says Magpie. “Why didn’t you keep that
ticket out of sight. Now, they’ll swear it was a brace game, and instead
of peace on earth, it’ll be pieces of Piperock scattered over the earth.
Scenery, git Testament off the platform, and let’s start the show before
they git time to start anythin’. Ike, you danged fool, we swore to
Paradise that there wasn’t a ticket held in Piperock. That’s why they
spent all their money. Somebody git that quartette to sing. Dirty Shirt,
you do it. Tell Muley Bowles to start it. Where’s your whiskers, Ike?”

“The camel done et ’em.”

“Hell! Well, you’ll have to be Santa Claus without the whiskers. No way
out of it now. Somebody light the star, will you, Scenery. Will you git
Araby set for this scene? Everybody clear off the stage, except Araby
and the Three Wise Men. There they go!”

“Ho-oh-lee-e-e-e ni-i-i-i-ight,” wails the quartette.

_Blunk!_

“Si-eye-lent ni-i-i-i-ight,” wails the trio.

_Whap!_

“In the good old sum-mer-r-r-r ti-i-ime,” sings the duet, and then
quits.

“Who hit Telescope and Henry Peck?” asks Muley, who sings tenor.

Comes the click of a gun, and then Tombstone Todd’s voice:

“I did! Whatcha goin’ to do about it, you hunk of leaf lard?”

“I’m goin’ to do the best I can without ’em, Tombstone.”

“That’s the spirit,” says Judge Steele. “And I want to warn all of you;
this gun scatters pretty bad at fifty feet, but as far as that’s
concerned, I don’t expect to hit any _innocent_ folks, no matter who I
shoot at.”

“We’ve been lied to,” wails Dog Rib. “They told me that nobody in
Piperock owned any chances. I tell you, we’ve been gypped. It don’t
stand to reason that one lone ticket--”

“Don’tcha worry, Dog Rib,” says Tombstone. “This ain’t over yet. The
Todd fambly never quits! I had eighty tickets, and any old time I spend
eighty dollars, I hang around pretty close.”

“You ain’t got no more right to it than I have. Numbers don’t--”

                 *        *        *        *        *

“Ladies and gentlemen, the show is about to begin,” says the judge. “As
far as Piperock is concerned, the raffle was on the square, and Ike
Harper wins.”

Old Testament steps outside the curtain.

“The first scene,” says he, “is the Three Wise Men in the desert. They
see the star of Bethlehem, which is brighter than all the stars. It is
so bright that it leads them on. And so they arise and foller the star.”

“Do they ever ketch it?” asks somebody.

But jist then the curtain is drawed back, showing Magpie Simpkins,
Tellurium Woods and Dirty Shirt Jones standin’ in single file, with
Araby back of ’em. And there’s the iron star, with the candle inside it,
hanging up in front of a black cloth.

“And the Wise Men saw the star,” says Old Testament piously. “And
they--”

“Um-m-m-m-m--a-a-a-a-ahhhh-oo-o-o-o--o-a-a-a-ah!” grunts Araby.

“And they looked and were much amazed, and they--”

“Hoo-o-o-o-o-a-a-a-a-aw-w-w-w-oo-o-o-o-o-a-a-a-ah!”

“Shut up, you moth-eaten, hump-backed old bum!” snorts Dirty Shirt.

“A-a-a-a-a-a-ah-a-a-a-a-a-aw-hoo-o-o-o-o-oah!”

Araby’s voice was almost a wail now. I feel shore that he ate and
swallered my whiskers, and it’s done give him a bellyache.

“And they were much amazed,” repeated Testament, tryin’ to make himself
heard.

“Wah-hoo-o-o-o-o-o!” wails Araby.

“They shore sound amazed!” yells somebody in the audience.

“Who in hell said I didn’t win?” yells Tombstone. “That wasn’t eighteen
at all--it was eighty-one. I’ve got her right here, boys. My wife’s
drawed my number! Here she is! By grab, I win that prize!
Yah-hoo-o-o-o-o-o! Ike Harper never won nothin’, the bow-legged
sheepherder!”

Well, I never let none of that gang call me names, even when I’m sober;
so I steps right out on that platform, with all my bells ringin’, and I
grabbed the shotgun out of the judge’s hands.

“Who’s a bow-legged sheepherder, you cross between a tarantler and a
polecat?” I yelps.

The only light in the place is that big iron star; and that’s behind me,
so I didn’t know where to shoot--but they did.

_Wham!_ A bullet fanned my ear, and down came the star--_ker-plank_!

I ducked down and rolled in behind a corner of the curtain.

“My Gawd!” says an awed voice in the audience. “You shot his head off,
Tombstone; I heard it hit the floor!”

Somebody yanked the curtains, and they began turnin’ on the lamps.
Magpie took the shotgun away from me and shoved me into a corner.

“This is one of the best shows I ever did see,” declares Hair Oil
Heppner. “Two singers done got knocked out, one bull fiddle busted, and
a Piperocker minus his head--and this is only the first act.”

“I’ve won that prize,” declared Tombstone. “Jist somebody try to stop me
from claimin’ it. Eighty-one wins.”

“I’ve got ten tickets,” says Dog Rib. “If eighteen was the number, I’ve
got as much right to have it as you have, Tombstone. I’m from Yaller
Horse the same as you and I--”

“You’re _from_ Yaller Horse,” admits Tombstone, “but if you don’t shut
up, you won’t never go back there, Dog Rib.”

Dog Rib is settin’ right behind Tombstone. Comes a dull thud, a sort of
a scramblin’ noise, and then Mrs. Todd’s voice:

“Git up and take to him, Tombstone. Git up, can’tcha? He hit you with a
boot. Did he hurt you, honey?”

“Honey’s in the comb,” says Hair Oil. “You shore do lift and drop a
wicked boot, Dog Rib. But you ort to have removed the spur. Common
etikette will tell you that it ain’t ethical to pet a man over the head
with a loose boot and not remove the spur first. I’ll betcha he’ll part
his hair in the middle for a long time to come. Well, the show gits
better as we go along, don’t it, folks?”

“The danged murderer’s got some of Tombstone’s tickets!” wails Mrs.
Todd.

“You had that boot off all the time, didn’t you?” asked Hank Padden.

“Shore did. How’d you know it?”

“You wouldn’t appreciate my reply, ’cause you live with ’em all the
time. Well, let’s go on with the show. What’s holdin’ us back? I paid
four bits to see a show, and all I’ve seen yet is small arguments. If
all we’re goin’ to do is fight--let’s build up a good one, and then go
home.” Magpie hauled me off the floor and led me back, where they’re
fixin’ up that stable scene.

“They’re about to do battle out there,” says I.

“That’s fine. If they fight among themselves, they won’t have time to
start trouble with us. Climb right up the ladder, Ike. I’ll tell you
when to come down, but it won’t be until the next act.”

                 *        *        *        *        *

I started to climb up the ladder, when all at once I seen the rear end
of an old red steer below me. The lower part of my chimbley is fixed up
like a stall, and they’ve got a mean lookin’ old steer, with jist his
head showin’. The rear end is in the clear, but his head is locked
tight. On the other side of the scene is that danged whisker eatin’
camel, also caught by the head. They’ve got lanterns to light this
scene. I’m pretty sore and stiff, but I climbs up my ladder and sets
down on the edge of my chimbley. Anyway, I’m too high up for anybody to
bother me, which ain’t such a bad position, but I didn’t realize that I
stuck up above the top of the curtain.

Out in front, they’re still quarrelin’, but I ain’t interested. I’ve
made up my mind to buy Dog Rib a drink for hittin’ Tombstone Todd. That
old steer kinda starts weavin’ back and forth, tryin’ to git his head
out, and I’m doin’ a balancin’ act on the top of that chimbley.

“You better calm that cow down there,” says I. “I’m no damn’ canary.”

“So-o-o-o, boss,” says Magpie. “Somebody git behind that damn’ steer
with a hunk of two-by-four, will you? Go out and explain this part of
the show to them ignorant sheepherders, will you, Testament. They won’t
know what it’s all about, unless you diagram it for ’em.”

“Go ahead with your prep’rations,” says Dugout Dulin. “I’ll calm this
steer. Whoa, you bald-faced hunk of rawhide. Stop weavin’ or I’ll knock
your rear end out of line with your ears. How’re you comin’, Ike?”

“Feet first, if I have m’ choice,” says I, hangin’ on tight.

Testament Tilton’s voice comes to my ears, and he’s shore exortin’
somethin’ about somebody bein’ born in a manger, and the wise men
bringin’ gifts.

“That part of it’s all right,” says Mrs. Todd, “but that don’t help
Tombstone none. He’s done recited all his mul-pi-cation tables, and that
damn’ Dog Rib Davidson done stole over half of his tickets. Ain’t there
no law in this place? I’ve been a lady all through these proceeding, but
I’m shore goin’ to forget m’ bringin’ up. Git up, honey, and poke him in
the nose.”

“Little mul-pi-cation won’t hurt him none,” says Dog Rib. “He don’t know
eighteen from eighty-one. He may be honey to you, but he’s shore
horseradish to me, ma’am.”

“There ain’t no law against hittin’ a man with a boot, is there, Judge?”
asks Hair Oil.

“Not specific, Hair Oil. It may be a breach of etikette.”

“When he wakes up, he’ll kill somebody,” says Mrs. Todd.

“Not with his own gun,” chuckles Dog Rib, “ ’cause I’ve got it.”

“He’ll run you out of Yaller Horse, you sneakin’ thief.”

“Tootms two is eight,” says Tombstone. “Tootms three is--is--”

“Eighteen,” says Dog Rib. “Let’s go ahead with the show.”

“I came out here to explain the scene to you,” says Testament. “Unless
you understand what it all means, you won’t know what it’s about. In
this scene, we aim to depict and duplicate a scene--”

“What happened to me?” chirps Tombstone, holdin’ his head in both hands.
“Where’d all this blood come from? I crave to know who hit me, that’s
what I’d crave?”

“Dog Rib hit you, honey,” says Mrs. Todd. “He stole your tickets and
your gun.”

“I’ll git your ears for this, Dog Rib!”

“You’ll need ’em to replace the ones I got from you. While you’re at it,
you might as well stock up on other parts of m’ anatomy, ’cause when I’m
through with you, you’ll need plenty fixin’, Tombstone.”

“Did he git number eighty-one?” asks Tombstone of his wife.

“If I didn’t, I’m shore cockeyed,” laughs Dog Rib. “Folks, I’ve shore
pulled the fangs out of this old sidewinder. He’s bossed Yaller Horse
jist as long as he’s goin’ to. From now on, Dog Rib Davidson is--

Dog Rib is standin’ up to make his proclamation, when Telescope
Tolliver, barytone of the Cross J quartette, flung a chair halfway
across the room at Tombstone, and hit Dog Rib right on the head. Dog Rib
shudders, folds up like a hat rack and disappears behind Tombstone
Todd’s chair.

“Si-eye-lent ni-i-i-i-ight,” sings Telescope, startin’ in where he left
off when Tombstone knocked him out.

“Set down!” snorts Muley Bowles. “We’re three murders and a homicide
past that song, Telescope. Set down, before somebody kills you. This
here peace on earth stuff means to keep down and protect your own head.”

“And Tombstone Todd still bosses Yaller Horse,” grunts Tombstone, as he
helps himself to Dog Rib’s gun and his own, while Mrs. Todd recovers
most of the tickets.

I can see and hear all this from my perch on top of the chimbley, where
I’m swayin’ like a jaybird on a limb.

“Git ready to yank the curtain,” says Magpie. “Put all them lanterns
inside the manger. Makes it look better. Somebody blow out the lights
out in front.”

“Somebody calm this here bo-veen, will you?” I asks. “I’m gittin’
seasick.”

                 *        *        *        *        *

I see the lights go out over the audience, and then I hears the curtain
go rattlin’ back. Every bit of light from all them lanterns is reflected
upward, and there I set on that swayin’ chimbley top, like an
illuminated buffalo coat, decorated with brass sleigh bells, which are
jinglin’ every time that restless steer weaves back and forth.

I’m gittin’ so dizzy I can’t look down, and the rest of the world is all
black to me.

“It’s Ike Harper,” says a voice out in the crowd. “The catspaw of
Piperock!”

“Don’t shoot, Tombstone! You might be mistaken!”

“I’d know him among a million. Don’t jiggle m’ arm.”

“Stand still, you bald-faced oreano!” yelps Dugout Dulin, and then I
hears the splat of that two-by-four across the rear end of the old
steer. _Wham!_

That bullet picked off one of my numerous sleigh bells and sent her
jinglin’ up among the rafters, and I let loose with both hands. It
wasn’t quite the longest fall I ever had, and I lit sittin’ down, for
the simple reason that the chimbley kept me from turnin’ over.

But I didn’t reach the floor. That old steer’s withers was between me
and terry firmy, as you might say, and I lit a-straddle of ’em. I reckon
I lit jist ahead of Dugout’s next attempt to pacify the steer from
behind, and we was both goin’ ahead at the impact.

My nose and chin knocked the front out of that fireplace, and we came
right out into that manger. I seen one horn of that steer hook into
Dirty Shirt’s curtain, and he seemed to kinda open up, like a newspaper
in the wind. It must have scared Araby, ’cause in what short time I had,
I seen that old camel’s shoulders and hump comin’ out through the wall,
and the camel’s mouth was wide open in a perfect “O”, like somebody
tryin’ to blow smoke rings.

“Hook’m, cow!” screams somebody out in that dark audience, and that
steer starts sunfishin’ right across that platform, headin’ for the
audience, head down, tail up, and foghorn blowin’, while behind us comes
Araby, kickin’ at everythin’ in sight, but follerin’ me and the
bald-faced steer.

It’s about eight feet drop to the floor off that platform, and I’ve got
both knees locked right behind that steer’s horns, when the fall
started. I gets a flash of Paradise and Yaller Horse and Piperock, goin’
backwards over their seats in the dark, and then we landed.

It shore was one awful jolt, but you can’t discount the Harper fambly,
when it comes to bulldoggin’ a steer. I took that animile to the floor
in one blaze of glory, as you might say. There’s only a few shots fired.
There was two fired close to the ceilin’, and I think it’s Judge Steele
up there with his shotgun, judgin’ from the sound of it. He was right in
the path of Araby the last I seen of him.

I’m pretty much shook to pieces, but I still retain my fightin’
instinct, and I got that steer by the horns, holdin’ his head close to
the floor. We knocked over all the chairs in reach, both of us growin’
weaker and weaker as the battle progressed.

Finally the steer said--

“Well, damn you, hold my arms, but git your hair out of my mouth!”

There’s a light comin’ from somewhere, and I lifts my head to look down
at the face of Dog Rib Davidson. One end of his mustache points up and
the other points down, one eye swellin’ shut and there’s hair between
his teeth.

The light stops beside us, and I look up at Dirty Shirt Jones, packin’ a
lantern. Behind him trails that colored curtain, and that’s about all
the raiment he’s got. He looks us over by the light of the lantern.

“Who’re you?” asks Dog Rib.

Dirty opens his mouth several times before he says:

“I’m one of the Wise Men who follered a star--but I lost the damn’
thing.”

“Huntin’ for it with a lantern?” I asks.

“I ’member you,” says he, his left eye doin’ a few loops. “You’re the
feller who had ticket number eighteen, but I don’t ’member your name,
feller.”

“I’m Sandy Claus.”

“Oh, yea-a-a-a-ah!” snorts a voice, and I set up to see Tombstone and
his wife. He’s got both arms braced against her to keep her upright.
She’s got the seat of a chair balanced on her head, and her mouth is all
puckered up in a silly smile.

“Look out for that steer!” yelps somebody, and here comes the danged
animal, wild eyed, with a chair hangin’ to one horn. I reckon he got
hung up on somethin’ around behind the platform, and jist got loose.

But that steer ain’t mad; he’s scared stiff. He throws up his head like
a deer, bawls like a slide trombone, and comes right straight for me,
kickin’ busted chairs every direction. Tombstone Todd let loose of his
wife and jumped out of the way, and the steer hurdled her. I fell
sidewise, as the steer surged past, and grabbed holt of its long tail.

Never do that. I went up in the air, sheddin’ busted chairs, got a flash
of that shiny autymobile in the lantern light, and then my head hit
somethin’ so hard that all the big and little stars clustered around me.
It shore was worth seein’, but it got monotonous after awhile.

Suddenly I hears voices, and all them stars went zippin’ away.

“Put her feet in, dang you! No, I want her all in. I tell you I’m goin’
to take away what I own. Now, you show me how to start her, Dirty
Shirt.”

I raised up and looked around. I’m in the back seat of that danged
machine, along with Mrs. Tombstone Todd, and in the front seat is
Tombstone, with a six-gun in his right hand. I can’t see Dirty Shirt
Jones, but I can see the light of his lantern. Mrs. Todd is sprawled
out, snoring lustily.

“Y--you--tut--turn that dud-dingus on that dashboard,” sayd Dirty
weak-like.

Zee-e-e-e-e! Somethin’ kinda hummed a little.

Mrs. Todd jerked upright, surged ahead and grabbed the back of the front
seat.

“My Gawd, I’ve had a nightmare!” says she.

Well, that sudden surge shoved that machine ahead, and it headed right
down them two planks. It hit the floor and headed right for the openin’
at the head of the stairs, with Tombstone Todd kickin’ at every pedal
with his feet and yankin’ at every lever with both hands.

“Whoa, you locoed son of a tin-can!” he yelped.

Wham! Bam! Rer-r-r-r-r-r-ro-o-o-o-o-o-w!

I felt that machine jerk ahead like a buckin’ horse, and that dark room
was filled with lightnin’ flashes, a cloud of smoke and the noise of a
machine gun. I tried to jump out at the head of the stairs, but I hit
against the side of the opening, and got knocked back on top of Mrs.
Todd, who is yellin’ for Tombstone to let her out.

We shot off the top of them stairs in the dark and I don’t reckon we
ever touched again until we shot out through that doorway, over the
board sidewalk, bounced a couple times in that icy street, made a slight
right hand turn jist in time to take every post out from under Buck
Masterson’s porch. The street is full of screamin’ people, horses
runnin’ away, porch posts goin’ up and comin’ down.

That’s when I lost Tombstone and his wife. The machine whirled around,
kinda actin’ bowlegged, righted itself, and about that time it must have
hit somebody, ’cause I’m enveloped in a suit of clothes that’s got
somebody inside ’em, and all them little stars came back to play with
little Ikie Harper.

I’m conscious of a dull crash, and then perfect peace. I open my eyes,
but all is darkness. I can hear somebody movin’ around, but I’m not much
interested. Then a lamp is lit and I look around. I’m settin’ in what’s
left of that prize machine, and behind me is a wrecked doorway. I look
around, and there’s Testament Tilton, standin’ beside his pulpit,
without hardly enough clothes on to flag a handcar. One eye is swelled
shut and his nose looks like a pickled beet.

“We’ll open services with a prayer,” says he solemn-like. “After that I
shall endeavor to explain the different scenes of our entertainment.
This is Christmas Eve--the evening when peace on earth, good will to men
predominates; the evenin’ when all men are meek and mild, and a little
child shall lead them.”

                 *        *        *        *        *

I dunno how I got out of there. That busted doorway wasn’t quite big
enough, ’cause both of my legs had different ideas of direction. I’m
still wearin’ part of that buffalo coat, and a long string of sleigh
bells trail along behind me.

I didn’t go uptown. There wasn’t anythin’ up there to interest me; so I
cut across to my own shack. I found Dirty Shirt, Scenery Sims and Magpie
there, and they’re a fine lookin’ lot of undertaker bait.

I just comes jinglin’ in and rubs my hands over the fire. Magpie look
sad-like at me, but don’t say anythin’.

“The steer broke its neck,” says Dirty Shirt. “Jumped through a winder
and landed on its head.”

“Araby died in convulsions,” says Scenery.

“And the autymobile went to church,” says I.

“Anyway, we’re all alive,” remarks Magpie.

“Nobody but a damn’ optimist would say a thing like that,” says I. “I
hope you’re satisfied, Magpie.”

“Oh, shore. It accomplished what we set out to do. We’ll have a new
church and a bell in the steeple.”

I helped myself to their jug, bent myself in the shape of a chair and
sat down by the fire.

“Dirty Shirt,” says I, “jist why did you and Scenery start this movement
for a new church? It’s a cinch neither of you got religion.

“Self-p’tection,” says Dirty. “That church looked like a saloon. Me and
Scenery got drunk and got in there by mistake.”

“Ter’ble,” says Scenery. “Ter’ble mishtake. Won’t happen ’gain,
y’betcha. Goin’ to have a steeple and a bell; so she’ll look and shound
like that she is. Well, here’s Merry Christmas to all and peace on
earth.”

I didn’t have no gun, and my fists don’t seem to be mates; so I took
another drink and went huntin’ for the horse liniment, as usual.


[Transcriber’s Note: This story appeared in the February 1, 1929 issue
of Adventure Magazine.]





*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE CATSPAW OF PIPEROCK ***


    

Updated editions will replace the previous one—the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away—you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE

PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg™
electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  
1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

    • You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.”
    
    • You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
        works.
    
    • You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    • You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.
    

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‘AS-IS’, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™’s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation’s EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state’s laws.

The Foundation’s business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation’s website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


